> difference you found between talend and AI
ANS: Talend is costeffective open source tool and used for small to medium range projects
where as abintio is propritery tool(owned by a private Company) where we need to purchase the licencse and used in high ranged projects
when compared to talend ai provide high performance, scalabiltiy and advanced features

> data parallelism(check in abintio pg5 - which components achieve it- all the partion components and other transform components like rollup scan join and sort

> partition on one key(A) and joining with multiple keys (B, C)?????
ANS: By partitioning Dataset 1 on key A and joining it with Dataset 2 on keys B and C, you ensure that each subset of Dataset 1 (based on partitioning key A) independently joins with Dataset 2. This approach allows for efficient parallel processing and optimization of join operations across large datasets.

> multiple outputs from single input in Reformat - which paramter used
   output indexes

> difference between op index and op indexes
       abintio pg6

> performanance wise - lkp vs join which is better
when you use lookup it is better for small reference datsets where as join is better performed in large datsets
join use more memory compared to lookup for faster retrivAL we use lookup in order to work on complex relationships we use join


> 100 rec's ip - 100 rec's op - only 20 recs should go to op - first instance 20 then 20 then 20 till 100
use round robin component and give the block size as 20

> difference between sort and sort within group
sort have only one key whereas sort within group has major and minor key and it thinks that it is sorted acc to major key and sorts with minor key it is used to sort within the subsets of the data

1)What are all the components u worked on?
reformat, scan,rollup,join,filterby expression,trash,input,output

2)Rollback and phase?
rollback is a feature which allows you you to revert back to the previous stable state if any error in occurs in the processing and phase allows us to manage the order in which components run. by using rollback we can maintain data integrity and consistency and by using phase resources are used efficiently and ensuring each stage is processed before going to the next one

3)Check in & Check out
Ans: See abintio pg6


INPUT1  
Media date of listing Market value Sector
Axis 01-02-00  345    Banking
HDFC 03-05-99  203    Banking
Tata 13-09-03  123    Auto
SBI  30-09-97  300    Banking
Kia  23-07-05  150    Auto

Media date   New market value
Axis 9th FEB 2022 1000
HDFC 9th FEB 2022 950
Tata 9th FEB 2022 800
SBI  9th FEB 2022 670
Kia  9th FEB 2022 450
Axis 8th feb 2022 800
HDFC 8th feb 2022 970
Tata 8th feb 2022 850
SBI  8th feb 2022 650
Kia  8th feb 2022 470

Get the new market value for banking and Auto sector

Get the maximum percentage increase in new market value compared to market value for each sector?
) breif intro about project which you had worked in your previous organisation
2)dedup sort
dedup sort is used to remove the duplicates, remove the values which are repeated based on the key we have given

3)what are all the components we used in abinitio
4)about CDC
5) id, date sal
1,23-02-2022,10
2,14-02-2022,20
1,26-02-2022,30
2,13-02-2022,40

using rollup what will we get in date column
id,sum(sal),date
1,40
2,60

6)id, name

1,A
2,B
3,C
4,D
1,A
2,B
3,C
4,D
PARTITION THE DATA BASED ON PARTITION BY KEY COMPONENT
1) Tell all commands in abinitio which you remember.

2)Difference between gather, merge and concatenate.
gather departitions the data randomly with no order and size,wheraas concatenation departions the data according to the input flow one after the other it will append the data simultaneously and merge is a key based de partition component and requires sorted i1nput 

3)if we sort data at different partitions and further use merge to get serial flow. Will we get data entirely sorted or sorted according to partitions?
ANS:we get data entirely sorted because when we use merge ,The Merge component ensures that the combined output maintains the sort order across partitions


4) input table (roll no, marks, subject) we need output as (roll no, sum of marks)
5)above question but we want all subject id also in same output row for which marks sum is calculated.
6)we want all roll no, marks and in last line we want sum of all marks. How can we do that?
7)gave 2 sample tables
if we perform inner join what will be output
ANS: only the matching records in both the inputs

If we perform left outer join what will be output
ANS: all the records from the left table and the matching records from right table

8)how to see all i/p or o/p file data in Unix shell along with column names.
m_dump command,cat,head,less,more,tail

> what differences you found between Informatica, Talend and Ab Initio
Informatica is ideal for enterprise-level data integration with strong performance, a user-friendly interface, and extensive support, but it can be costly.

> Architectural difference between Informatica and Ab initio

> basic AI components you worked upon and functionalities of those
> a. 10 employees - department - count of employess per dept. b. Same above example - dept with highest count of emloyees
> employee1 10k, e2 20k, e3 15k e4 20k e5 25k e6 NULL, e7 40k. dept wise max salary, if 2 employees have same salary as max then both should come

> why is it to sort the data first and then go for rollup would be good approach
Sorting data before applying the Rollup component in Ab Initio ensures efficient and correct aggregation. It helps in reducing memory usage, speeds up processing, and simplifies downstream operations. By sorting data by the key fields, you make sure that Rollup processes correctly grouped records, leading to accurate and optimized results


> emp table and dept table(d_id, d_name). op expected emp_id, dep_id, dep_name, salary, check_salary.  check_slary 1 or 0. 
whenever salary is greater than 25k, mark 1 else 0(unknown salary)
ANS:
> how do u run graph from frontend and backend
frontend- open gde create a graph and run
backend- using command line and typing command air sandbox run

> how to check in checkout
in gde there is an option for graph where we can checkin and checkout out graphs and in backend we use air sandbox import and air sandbox export

> explain about MFS and benefits. more about m_* commands
mfs stands for multi file system it is a way to manage the large dataset efficiently by splitting into small portions and each partition is processed simultaneously by each processor. MFS contains two files one is control file and the other is data file , control file contains the location of the file where as data file contains the actual data. m commands are used mostly for multifiles they are m_eval, m_dump, m-expand, m_cat, m_cp,m_partition

> what is control file and data file
ANS: Control file contains the location of the file and data file contains the actual data

> exercise more on MFS.
1) If you have to explain what is Ab initio to a fresher than how will you explain
Ab intio is pwerful data processing Tool used for ETL operations in datawarehousing projects
it transforms large amount of raw data into structured format for reporting and analysis

2) Can we change the order of extract, transform, load if not what is the reason?
no we cant ETL follows a logical and necessary order, if we change the order the efficiency and the performance will decrease ,Data Dependancy  is followed in ETL operations where in we need raw data to extract from the source in  order to do any transformations and and after transforming we need cleansd data to move in to the load for further reporting ang analyzing

3) Explain what is Sandbox
sandbox is ,isloated environment,it is like a private workspace where we can develop, experiment the data processing tasks without disturbing the main production system , it is more of like a private repo where it contains all the graphs,plans,scripts,parameter files,metadata ,version control files etc.sandbox is physical space where we have all our plans,graphs and data


4) What types of errors you have gone through in ab initio (syntax errors/graph errors)
out of sort order-i didn't used the sort component before rollup and scan
transform errors where i didn't correctly matched the in to out fields


5) About Rollback (first time when graph fails and again when we want to run the graph there a prompt shows regarding that you want to run the graph from starting or from the rollback)
rollback is a feature which allows you to revert back to previous stable state if any error occurs while you were running the graph

6) scenarios:
Emp id      LM id
1 2
2 3
3 4
4 5
5 is the CEO
find the who is the CEO of the company and the least employee in the company.
7) empid     Gender
      1              F
      2              M
      3              F
      4              M
      5             M
Find the count of male and female employees
8) empid     Gender    Age                          empid       name
      1              F            30                              1                A
      2              M           36                              2                B
      3              F             48                             3                 C
      4             M            33                              4                 D
      5             M            40                              5                 E
Find a output having empid,gender,age,name
As 
Empid     gender      age         name
3               F                48            C
5               M               40           E
Reetika----------------------------
> what are the directories in sandbox. How project look like.(ASK SURYA)
A sandbox in Ab Initio is an organized folder with specific directories for different parts of your project. It includes places for your main work files (src), reusable tools (lib), automation scripts (scripts), settings (config), data files (data), logs (log), special tools (bin), runtime needs (run), and temporary files (temp). This structure helps keep everything in order and makes your project easier to manage

> what is a test flag and how it was pointing?
ANS: it is special setting that you your saying to the abintio that your working on on testing or development mode rather than production mode
this test flag parameter is set before running the graph so that that it is an indication to use the test files, test database rather than original production files and databases so that it improves the safety, debugging

> 3 subjects(one file) - maths, english, history 
student name, marks, subject
create 3 files per subject
avg marks of every student

> lkp vs join and when each would be used
when you use lookup it is better for small reference datsets where as join is better performed in large datsets
join use more memory compared to lookup,in order to get fast retrival you use lookup and in order to work with complex relationships(Suitable for more complex data relationships where you need to combine large volumes of data based on multiple keys or conditions) you work with join

> air commands with example
see abintio pg no 13

> launcher agent - how graph executed?
ANS

> application of replicate component
ANS: replicate component is used to duplicate the records, one you want to use the same record in more than one circumstance use replicate, replicate increases component parrallelism

> When you run a graph how it works in backend


Anirudha------------------------
1) What is Database file called as?
ANS: .dbc file it contains all the configuration information, connection information like ip address, portnumber, type of database, user credentials and metadata etc.

2) How to get dept id , empid, max salary dept wise ?
use rollup and give  key as dept id and in transform give connect salayr in to max of salary

3) How to get maximum contribution dept wise and then which dept have maximum contribution?
give key as dept and get max salary and giving ranking with next with sequence and filter out the no 1 rank

4) Join component
join component is used to join or merge or comibine two large datasets or file if we want the  only values matching in the both the tables use innerjoin and  if you want all the values if at all there is a single match use outer join and left outer join and right outer join

5) How to connect database?
ANS:

Lalita Yadav-------------------
Ø Difference Between Talend and An initio 

talend is  open source tool costeffective whereas abintio is propretiary licence based
is is use used for small to medium range projects whereas ai is used for high range projects
when compared to talend ai provide high performance,scalabilty,and advanced features

Ø How do u read a file in backend , how do u read a MFS file 
cat and m_cat or m_expand

Ø How do u replace the content of the file in UNIX . Give the syntax
cat > file name

Ø How do u append a file data . Give syntax
cat >> filename

Ø Difference between Serial and Multifile
serial is flat file which only contains single dataset where as multifile contains the multiple files 

Ø Why is scheduler used and if scheduler is not present how do u run the job 
ANS: scheduler is used to schedule graphs to run at a particular time or at a certain event,it is used to automate the execution of the task we it is not present we work from the backend using unix and shell scripting

Ø Write a query in Sql  - to find the No. of employees joined on a particular date from the following table 
Emp table – Emp ID, Emp Name , date of birth, date of joining

select count(*) as num_of employees
from EMP
Where date of joining =

Manish Dwivedi-------------------------
Ø Difference between SCD-type 2 and SCD type 3
in type2 the current and historical records are kept in same table
in type 3 the current and historical records are kept in same table but the user decides how history to be kept in the records

Ø Tell me about the abinitio components you have learnt and their significance

Ø Multifile system and the partitioning components
multi file file system is an efficient way of manging large dataseta by splitting into small subsets of records and each each subset is processed by each different processor it contains data file and control file. partion by key,partition by roundrobin,partionby range,partion by expression,partiton by range,partion by load balance

Ø Difference between Gather, Merge and Concatenate
gather departition the the data randomly without any particular size or length ,where as concatenate departion the data in acc to the input flow in single flow , it will append the data one by one and merge is key based departiton comoponent

Ø How to replace the content of the file . Give syntax 
cat > filename

Ø How to print the contents of the above replaced file . Give syntax
cat,more,less 

Ø Table containing columns Employee name, Age and Gender . Write sql statements for the below
• Need the sum of age of male and female
select gender, sum(age) 
from emp
group by gender
• How to delete the nulls in the column employee name 
delete from employee 
where employee name IS_NULL

Ø How can you remove the duplicates from a file containing 10 columns in UNIX
use sort and uniq

Ø In SCD-type 2 whether we will add columns or rows insert the data 

Ø How to find a file . Give Syntax
find . -type f -mtime +30 -exec rm {} \;

Ø How do u print the 2nd and 4th columns in a file containing 10 columns in UNIX. Give syntax
awk '{print $2, $4}' data.txt

Ø What is an EME
EME is repository of ab intio which contains the information about the graphs, plans and projects and contains the metadata and all the versions so that eme is used for storage, version control, and impact analysis 
 
Ø Did u learn about TAG creation. Explain
Tag in abinitio is like a labelling a version to an object in the EME 
so that it will be easy to retrieve the version or 
to manage and track the changes effectively throughout the development cycle


Ø What is your daily activities in previous projects and what do you know about testing

Divya / Sanyojita / Rakesh--------------------------
Ø Difference between fact and dimension tables
fact describes the quantitive terms like measurements, numbers, sales, transactions etc
whereas dimensions are the attributes of facyts which describes the facts like  customer name,age,address etc

Ø What is a p-set in abinitio
pset is a collection of parameters that are used to configure the behavior of graphs,componnets and projects
•	these psets are used  to manage and organize in central location so that it will be easy to modify,manage and maintain
•	parameters can include file paths,datbase connections, transformation rules,and other configuration settings
•	pset typically contains name,type,value


Ø Tell me types of CDC and explain 
ANS:
Ø Which table comes first dimension or the fact table
dimension table comes first because it helps to describe the data in fact table it helps us analyze the data in fact table

Ø How do you print 2 columns from a table . Give Syntax
awk '{print $2,$3}' file.txt
awk -F ',' '{print $2,$3}' file.txt

Ø Which command do you use to search a file in any directory
find command
find -name file.txt
sudo find / -name "example.txt" (search all directories and sub directories)

Ø Where will you write the dml for the graph
record
decimal (",") emp_id;
end

Ø Explain what you see on the GDE screen
organizer, sanbox, blank space to drag and drop components and create pipeline, view, settings, canvas view etc
 
Ø In how many ways you can create a file in UNIX
cat,touch,vi, echo
Ø Commands you know in UNIX and their uses
ls-list
cp-copy
mv-move
grep-find words
cd-change directory
cat-display and create
cat > - insert data and override data
cat >> - to append the data
vi - editor
chmod - change the permission of file
chown - change the owner of file
rm- remove or delete
mkdir- create dir
rmdir- delete dir
head- display the top 10 lines
tail - display the bottom 10 lines



Noyal & Team-----------------------------
• Difference between OLTP & OLAP
oltp-online transaction processing
it is used for day to day transactions
it is used in data processing but not analysis
it is used in small projects
banking transactions example
olap-online analytical processing
it is used to store and retrieve on historical basis
it is used for data analysis but not processing
it is used in big projects
financial reporting,sales analysis

• SCD Types with examples
type 1- no history maintained
type2- history maintained
type3- history is maintained but user how much history is to be maintained
type4- two files one for current record and other for history
type6- hybrid

• Types of facts

• Difference between fact and dimension tables
ANS: facts table stores the quantative terms which include numbers like measurements, metrics, ticket numbers, transaction numbers values which are ready for analysis
dimension table are the tables which store the attributes of facts (which describe the fact table) like customer name, transaction address, etc.

• What is orphan record
ANS: the record in one table has no parent record in the other table , then the record is said to be orphan record so when compared to foriegn and the primarykey the record identified based on foreign key cannot be identified in primary key
   
• Grep, cd, awk, find
ANS: see unix docs

• SQl Query to give me salary dept and its headquater wise with the data given below
Emp ID , Emp Name , Location ID, Department ID , Salary ( Employee Table)
Location ID , Location name , active (Location table)
Dept ID , Dept Name (Department Table)
SELECT 
    d.DeptName AS Department,
    l.LocationName AS Headquarters,
    SUM(e.Salary) AS TotalSalary
FROM 
    Employee e
JOIN 
    Location l ON e.LocationID = l.LocationID
JOIN 
    Department d ON e.DepartmentID = d.DeptID
WHERE 
    l.Active = 'Y'
GROUP BY 
    d.DeptName, l.LocationName
ORDER BY 
    d.DeptName, l.LocationName;

• How can you replace the content of a file using VI editor
ans: yes by using insert option

• How do you check out a tag 

Bijoy----------------------------
• Difference between Talend And Ab initio
talend  is cost effective open source tool which is used in small to medium range projects
where as ai is proprtiary tool where we need to purchase the licence and used in high range projects
comared to talend ai provides faster performance, scalability and advanced features.
 
• Types of parallelism with examples in ab initio
data parallelsim- partitioning data
component parlelleism - using two components at a time
pipeline parllellism - different stages of pipeline can execute concurrently

• Explain the following query in a graph:
Product table containing Product number and product name as columns with 1000 records
Transaction table containing product number, date and customer id as columns with 50 billion records
I need an output as Product name , product number, customer id and count 
Explain each component and transforms you will use in the graph 
ANS: one input file and another lookup file , add reformat component join these two files and add another rollup component and in transform logic write the count

• Explain and write a select statement for the above scenario in sql
SELECT 
    p.product_name, 
    p.product_number, 
    t.customer_id, 
    COUNT(*) AS transaction_count
FROM 
    Product p
JOIN 
    Transaction t ON p.product_number = t.product_number
GROUP BY 
    p.product_name, 
    p.product_number, 
    t.customer_id
ORDER BY 
    p.product_name, 
    t.customer_id;


• What is cat command used for 
cat command is used to create , display , override, and append the data in file

• I need to find the word ‘ERROR’ in a file. Which command you use in unix? Give syntax
grep "ERROR" ex.dat

• What command you use to change the permissions of a file?
chmod is used to change the permission in file

• What does 1st 7 in chmod 777 means
 FIRST 7 -PERMISSION FOR OWNER WHERE HE CAN READ WRITE AND EXECUTE THE FILE
SECOND -7 GROUP
THIRD7 - OTHERS

>what do you know about ETL explain?
ETL means extract ,transform and load........ extract means getting raw data from various sources like files,jsons,csv,xmls, etcc and transforming them in structured format based on business logic and load them in to the output files or datbases for further analysis and reporting.

>What is abinito and application of abinito?
abintio is poerful data  processing tool used for etl operatiins in datawarehousing and dataintegration projects
the application of abintio is to transform large amount of raw and unstructured data into structured format for further analysis and reporting.

>what is parallelism types of parallelism explain with an example?
parallelism is nothing but the ability to execute multiple data processing tasks concurrently or simultaneously to use the resources efficiently, to improve the performance and to handle large amount of data.
component ,pipeline and data

>what is cheakin cheakout?
checkin is the process of saving or submitting the changes to the repository
everytime you checkin a new version is created
checkout is the process of retriving a graph or component from the repo to your local space so that you can work on  it
so when you checkout the latest version is updated into your workspace 
when you checkout it locks the graph so that no other person can checkout and edit the graph

>what is json file and how you get data from json file to abinito?
java script object notation is lightweight datainterchange format mostly used to transmit data between server and web application. 

>unix command 
1. grep-grep command is used to find a specific pattern or word in file
2. history- it shows the history of what commands we worked on 
3. awk- awk is used for text processing and data extraction it can also perform artimetic calculations where grep cannot
4. sed- sed is stream editor, which is used to transform the text rather than finding it alters the text.

>what is primary key in a table?
ANS: primary key is a field which uniquely identifies each row in the table

>what is foreign key in a table?
forigen key is the key which links the two tables where this key is the primary key of the parent table
  
>how to perform join in database?
combining two or more tables based on the common related  columns between them

1)Explain about your previous project and roles you performed.
2)Explain about snowflake.
it is a type of datawarehouse schema where the data is organzed in snowflake type , it is extended version of star schema , where the attributes in dimension table or normalized ( means the table table is further divided) hence data is stored in more structutred manner and maintains integrity

3)Expalin about SCD type1 and SCD type2.
in scd 1 no history is maintaind the new data override by the new data
in scd type 2 history is maintained along with the new data

4)Tell about Agile model.

5)Explain about joins in SQL.
innerjoin
outer join
left join
right join
cross join

6)Difference between Rank and Dense_Rank.
rank is like 1,2,2,4 where dense rank 1,2,2,3 where there will be no gaps in dense rank and there are gaps in rank

7)How will you search for a whole word in a file.
grep -w "word" ex.txt

8)How will you search for matched pattern word only.
grep -o '\bpattern\b' filename

9)What you have learnt in training period and your experience.
1) How to connect database to abinitio?
by using .dbc file which contains all the configuration details of the database 

2) What is input file and output file?
input file you extract the data and output file you load or push the data.

3) Difference between output indexes and output index?
one input to single output flow is  output index
one input to multiple output flows is output indexes

4) What is rollup and scan?
rollup component used when you want grouped solutions or aggregate solutions when you want less output for more input use rollup and to perform aggregate functions like sum count and avg use  rollup
scan component is use  when you want cumulative output and when you required output for each input field ,you can us scan when you want same input to the same output use scan use scan when you want cumulative output

5) Types of join?
innerjoin
outer join
left join
right join
cross join
self join

6) How to remove first record from a header file in abinitio?
ANS: using fbe or reformat using output index

7) Public sandbox and private sandbox?
public sandbox is share environment where the changes made by you are visible to the others(nothing but a EME)
whereas private sandbox is private or a personal workspace where you need to checkin so that others can see what changes you have made
public sandox is used for collabarative development wheras private sandbox is used for individual testing and experimenting

8) To explain a question that you done as assignment during training of abinitio?
9) What is EME?
EME is the central repository of abintio where all the graphs plans projects objects metadata environmental variables metadata  are stored. This EME is used for storage, version cotrol and impact analysis

10) What is length function in Normalize?
lengh lunction in normalize decide the number of ouput record for each input record,it is used to produce desired no of ouputs

11) Air commands
see abinio pg no 13

12) Types of partition?
partition by key,range,roundroubin,expression,load balance
see pg no 9

13) What is Reject port?
reject port is used to capture the  records that failed to meet the criteria given in the transformation logic
it is used to find the problematic records and divide from main data flow and use this data for further analysis
these reject port are used in reformat,fbe,rollup and scan

14) What is abort on first reject and never abort?
abort on first reject-  the component stops working whenever there is a single reject event based on the transformation logic,it is used when you need all your data need to satisy the logic or validation request
never abort- the component or graph doesn't stop even though any reject event occurs and it processes the graph and give the output,it is used when you are not that so serious of the data to satisfy all the logic all you want is the  output

15) Difference between Merge and concatenate?
merge is keybased departion component where it combine the data based on the key whereas conacatenate combines the data one after the another in serial flow  
it will aappend the data simaultanouesly

16)Next_in_sequence?
next_in_sequence i used to generate the rank for the given data based on the key you have given 
 
17)In unix simple command to print 10 records?
head -n 10 data.txt

18)Checkin
checkin is process of pushing your data into the main repository , so that the changes you made are visible to the users 
everytime ypu checkin it creates a new version so that it will be easy to compare and analyse with older versions

1.Explain about previous project

2.SCD TYPE2
in scdtype2 new record as well as the history of the old record will be maintained in a single table 

3.CDC TYPES
ANS:

4.components you know in abinitio
rollup,scan,reformat,trash,fbe,partiton componnets,departition components,normalize,redefine,sort,join,fuse,metapivot,
5.Record format 
record is used to define the structure of data, it is process of saying of how you want to view the data

6.what is the use of partition components
partition components are used to divide or split the data into smaller chunks so that it will be easy to process,reduce the memory usage and managalbility will be easy and faster performance

7.When using SCD types we maintain current data and historical data,
now how can we retrieve the historiacal data with specific date range using sql
ANS: for every scd  types evry record is timestamped with effective date and expiry date  to keep track of the valididty period of the each record so based on this date we can retrieve the historical data with specific date range
for more exp see abinito pg no 16
 
8.Difference between delete and truncate
delete command is used to delete rows based on specific condition (where we use where command)
truncate is used to delete all the rows but not the structure of the table
drop is used to delete all the rows and the structure of the data

9.How to find the Nth highest salary
SELECT Salary
FROM (
    SELECT Salary, DENSE_RANK() OVER (ORDER BY Salary DESC) AS Rank
    FROM Employees
) AS SalaryRank
WHERE Rank = N;

10.Find the salaries of employees who are receiving salary more than manager
select * from empoloyes e join emplyoees m on e.employeesid=e.managerid
where e.salary>m.salary

11.Scenario based on join.
12.How to select records between given range in abinitio
SALARY >5000 AND SALARY<10000 Using fbe

13.M_commands 
m_dump, m_eval, m_expand, m_cat, m_cp, m_mv, m_mkfs, m_password

1. what is subquery, why we use Subquery
when we use query within a query
it is used to filter the data and for data comparision

2. Can we use subquery in where clause
yes we can use it

3. what is corelated-query
corelated query is like having a small question inside a big question where answer of small question is based upon the each row of big question
ex:Imagine you have a list of employees and their salaries, and you want to find employees who earn more than the average salary in their department.

4. Types of Joins with example
inner join- only matching values from bothe the tables
outer join- return all the values if there is a single match
left join- all the values from left and the matched values from right
right join - all the values from right and the matched values from the left
 
5. aggregate functions, Group by and having clause
aggrergrate function performs calculations on set of values and return a single value- sum,coun,avg,max,min,
group by is used to group then same values in the specified column like male and female in gender column
having by is like where condition used to filter only the aggregated data 

6. Order of clauses in SQL
WGHO 
select
from
join
where  
group by
having
and order by

7. Union.
union is used to combine tow or more select statements and and also remove the duplicates from both the select statements

1. Introduce Yourself

2. we have two column with Identifier 1 and Identifier 2 and we have to assign tag A and B to the row  if both column is true assign A else B.
How can we achieve this and how to write condition.

SELECT 
    Identifier1,
    Identifier2,
    CASE 
        WHEN Identifier1 = true AND Identifier2 = true THEN 'A'
        ELSE 'B'
    END AS Tag
FROM your_table_name;


3. Difference between output index and output indexes. How to write condition in output index and indexes?
if we want input file to single output flow use output index and if you want single input file to multiple output flows use output indexes


4. What is difference between primary key and primary index.
primary is unique set of columns or column where we uniquely identify the each row based on these column
A primary index is an index created on the primary key of a table to facilitate efficient retrieval of data. it is automatically created when the primary key is created it is used for faster retrival and efficient querying

5. we want all record from table 1 and only matching record from table 0. How to achieve this?
right join all the recs from 1 and matching values from 0

6. what is tail command and its syntax?
tail command is to display the results of the bottom data of the file 
tail -n 10 data.txt

7. How to fetch 3rd and 4th column of a file in unix?
awk '{print $3,$4}' file.txt

8. What is rank() and dense rank() function?
rank assigns the values with gaps like 1,2,2,4 whereas dense rank assigns values without any gap like 1,2,2,3

1. introduce yourself
2. what is join in sql
join is feature in sql which is used to combine two or more table based on specific column or a key
innerjoin
left join
outer join
right join
self join
cross join

3. join types all and syntax
left join
outer join
right join
self join
cross join

4. what are filtering clauses
where and having by are the filtering clauses
and ,or, between ,like ,null/not null ,in, etc

5. having clause
having clause is like where condition but is used to filter the data for only aggregated data and mostly used after group by function

6. difference between where and having
where is a condition clause it is used to fiter the records based on the condition whereas having by is also similar to where but it is only use to filter aggregated data

7. order of using them
WGHO

8. union, union all there difference
union is used to combine tow or more select statements and and also remove the duplicates from both the select statements wheras union all is combin the result sets of two or more select statements but the duplicates are not removed from the final result set

9. subquery
query within a query, nested query


1. What is the Name of Command to give Permission and write syntax to give Permission of write and execute to file and directory.
chmod +wx data.txt
chmod +wx directoryname

2. What are the commands used to copy,remove,and move the file and Write their syntax.
cp oldfile newfile
rm filename
mv oldfile newfile

3. find the file name start with emp in the current diectory.
find . -type f -name "emp*" 

4. Print first or Last 10 lines from a file.
head -n 10 file.txt
tail -n 10 file.txt

5. write the syntax of command to Print the Pattern from the file emp.txt
grep "pattern" emp.txt

6. What is star schema, snowflake schema, oltp ,olap and Explain OOP's concept like inheritance and encapsulation.
ANS: it is a type of datawarehouse schema where the data is organzed in snowflake type , it is extended version of star schema , where the attributes in dimension table or normalized ( means the table table is further divided) hence data is stored in more structutred manner and maintains integrity whereas starschema the data in the dimension table are not normalized hence there will be no data reduandancy

oltp-online transaction processing
used i small to medium range projects
it is data processing but  not data analyzing
day to day call transactions
history will not be maintained
olap- online analytical processing
used in high range projects
it is data analyzing but not not data processing
sales analysis is the example
history will be maintained

7. what are the Phases of Sdlc.

8. define fact and dimension table.
fact table are the tables which describe the quantataive terms like mesurements and metrics like numbers, sales figures , transaction numbers etc where as dimension tables are the attributes of the fact means which describe the fact table like name ,address, email, first name, last name.gender etc

9. how to check in and check out from backend.
air sandbox import and air sandbox export

10. difference between sandbox.Pset and Project.Pset.
sanbox.pset : it is only specific to a sandbox, where the parameters and the environment variables are defined to a particular sandbox
configuration details are set a single sandbox
it is like having a personal workspace where you can define your own parameters abd settings
project.pset : it is specific to the entire project and the sandboxes present in it , where the parameters and environment variables are defined to the entire project
configuration details are set to entire project
it is like settings for entire office where all need to follow the same settings

11.  create graph to get the ouput from any specified input according to demand.
we need to know the demand if it combine two tables -use join
                            aggregate functions -use rollup
                            cumulative results - use scan
                            select within some range - FBE
                            selected output for specifc input - normalize

12. what is the command used to execute the graph in unix.
air sandbox run

13. like we have a file with A,B,and C record in a field and we want to transfer "A" record in first output file and "B","C" record in Second output file.
so, how we can create a graph for it.
output index (if record=="A") 0 else 1

14. What is Generic graph.
ANDS: generic graph is nothing but using single graph multiple times, mostly these graphs are not hardcoded(values are not directly assigned) and they are mostly parmetrized where we can assign the values to the variables and we use that variables so that same graph can process with different data
  
15. define Rollup ,join and Lookup.
rollup is used to perform aggregate functions and also perform group by functions when we want less output for more input use rollup
join is used to combine two or more tables based to specific key
lookup is similar to join but used in small reference datsets where the loopkup file is small compared to input data and it helps in faster retrival it works mostly like a left join

16. How to graph to validate the data.

17. how to write dml.
record
string ("  ") ep_id;
string (" " ) emp_name;
decimal (" ") salary;
end

18. how to create parameter in graph.
in gde there is an option call view-> parameter and then assign parameters (or) click F11 and you can create parameters ,and these parameters are like assigning values to a particular variable so that these can be used in your graphs once and also you can modify it in parameter level but not directly at the graph

19. what are join-type in join and how to perform left outer join.
inner join
right joim
left join
outer join
use explicit join and set true false in the parameters then it performs left join

*Introduction
*What are the components you are aware of in  abinitio
rollup,scan,normalize,join,sort,fbe,reformat,redefine,input,output, 

*In unix we have multiple fields in a file we have to fetch 6 field, which command we use to fetch 6 field from file.
awk '{print $6}' filename

*If we want to run graph in unix,which command we use to run a graph in the unix
air sandbox run 

*We have two sources in abinito one is emp table and one is dept table.
1)emp table contain employee details that is employee name,dept id,deptnames
2)dept table contain average salary of each department .In the outcome we want dept name,average salary,no of employees working in a single department 
what is the skeleton and approach of the graph.
give two tables emp table and dept table add join and add reformat and give count based on department 

1)Self introduction?
2)Roles and Responsibilities ?

3)Explain SCD types with an example?
in scd 1 no history is maintaind the new data override by the new data
in scd type 2 history is maintained along with the new data
in scd type 3 history is maintained but user decides how data need to be stored
in scd type 4 two tables are maintained one for currentand other for history
in scd type 6 - hybrid mode

4)Have you worked on SAS?
5) Agile methodology?
1. Tell me about yourself
2. Roles and responsibilities in your previous project
3. Difference between Multi -Threading in Talend and parallelism in Ab Initio 
Multi-threading in Talend refers to the ability to execute multiple parts of a job simultaneously within the same process.
Parallelism in Ab Initio refers to the ability to execute multiple data processing tasks simultaneously across multiple CPUs or nodes.

4. Agile methodology
5. Performance Tuning techniques
see abintio pg no 17

6. Changes you observed in Talend and Ab initio
7. Ab Initio components

Round 2
explain Hadoop architecture (Map reduced, YARN, HDFS)
see abintio pg no 18

difference between structured, semi-structured, unstructured with examples
structured data is highly organized and the data is formatted in specific way that makes easily readable by the humans and machine 
example - tables and spreadsheets
semi structured data is not so well organized when compared to the structured data but a bit of organized with tags and markers to separate data elements
exaple-jsons,xmls,nosql databases
unstructured data- the data which is not at all organized in any manner and it is difficult to understand and process is known as unstructured data
exapmles - documents,multimedia,social media posts

what is bigdata and sources of bigdata
bigdata refers to the large datasets that are complex and massive in volume ,velocity and variety bigdata is often described with 3vs-
the datasets are so large the the traditional data processing software cannot manage and analyse them effectively
Volume- the amount of data generated every second,hour,minute
Velocity- the speed at which the new data is generated
Variety-the different types of data generated(structured,semi,unstructeddata)
sources- social media, transactional data, healthcare data,finacial data etc...

Explain Hadoop ecosystem and what is zoo keeper, oozie, sqoop in Hadoop
zookeeper - it is coordination system that manage the configuration information,naming(unique naming system to the componnets) and synchronization(proper coordination b/w distributed systems)  and group services across distributed applications
oozie- it is workflow scheduler for scheduling and manging the jobs it allows users to define a series of jobs and dependencies between them
sqoop- a tool for efficiently transferring bulk data between hadoop and structured datastores such as relational databases like SQL

overview of HDFS
see abintio pg no 18

explain name node, data node ,block
pg no 18

what is Map/Reduce
pg no 18

Are you aware of Spark ,Hive query base processing’s

how to create sub directories in Hadoop
hdfs dfs -mkdir /user/username/subdirectory

different Hadoop commands (ls/dir, ls-l, rm  command, getfacl and setfacl, source to destination paths)
see Hadoop ppt

explain put , get commands in Hadoop
The put and get commands in Hadoop are used to transfer files between the local filesystem and the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)
PUT COMMAND IS USED TO COPY FILES OR DIRECTORIES FROM LOCAL FILE SYSTEM TO HDFS(COPY FROM LOCAL)
GET COMMAND IS USED TO COPR FILE FROM HDFS TO LOCAL FILE SYTEM(COPY TO LOCAL)

Unix commands (Chmod  Operations, cd)
chmod is used to change the permissons of the file 
it determines who can read write and execute
chmod 777 dat.txt read write and execute permissions are set to user , group and others

cd - is to change directory


difference between ls ,  ls -l, ls -lrt, ls -lart in unix.
ls- long list
ls -l - list the files in long format with permissions , data of modification etc
ls-lrt- list the file in long format and modification time in reverse order(old to new)
ls -lart - list the files in lonformat and modification  time in reverse order and hidden files as well 

>Tell me about yourself
>Changes you observed in informatica and Ab initio

>asked about Unix commands and Shell scripts
>.pset
.pset are the collection of parametrs which are used to configure the behavior of graphs and components and plans
these psets are stored and managed in central location so that it will be easy to maintain mange and manipulate
paarmetrs can include filepaths, database connections, transformation rules and other conf settings
it contains name type value

>scenario based on pset (repitative logic)

>question on schedular task

>on which extension graphs are stored
.ksh

1)tell me the which components you used in your training? 
2)which components used to filter the data?
fbe

3)diffrence between output index and output indexes?
single input to single output flow op, single input to multiple output flows ops

4)if you have data like 
id country
1  India
2  USA
3  Germany
4  china
5  UK

then how you will the partition this data into 5 different outputfile by countrywise
use output index


5)dedup sort and its parametrs
dedup sort is used to remove the duplicates or the repeated values
based on the key given
there is explicitly called last first and unique which prints values based on given condition


6)rollup and scan components and its parameters 

7)difference between rollup and scan

8)normalise component
normalize component generates multiple output records for each of its input records, you can specify the length for how much input you want how much output
if you want more output for less input use normalize

9)lookup component
lookup component is used to join a smaller refernce dataset to a larger table, in order to get faster retrival and less memory usage when compared to join use lookup
lookup is used in data transformation tasks when you like to enrich the data by adding the information from another source

10)how many join type in join component
inner join
outerjoin and explicit join

11)If you use the null key in join component then what will be the output
cross join will occur

12)If you use the null key in partition by key component then what will be the output
all the data will go into single partition

13)what is XFR
ANS: an XFR (transform) file is used to define transformation logic. It is a critical part of data processing, allowing you to manipulate and transform data according to specific business rules. The XFR file contains Ab Initio's transformation language code, which is used within components like Reformat, Filter by Expression, and Rollup

14)which component you used to remove the header and trailer in graph?
15)How you run the graph in backend
air sandbox run

16)how to do checkin and checkout in backend
air sandbox import 
air sandbox export

17) how you run the graph in backend
18)how to convert the serial file into multifile 
using paritition components


19)what is pset and its parameter
pset is a collection of parameters that are used to configure the behavior of graphs,componnets and projects
these psets are used  to manage and organize in central location so that it will be esy to modify,manage and maintain
parameters can include file paths,datbase connections, transformation rules,and other configuration settings
pset typically contains name,type,value



20)components and its parameters:
reformat,join,partition by key, partition by roundrobin
1. How many components you are used in training session.
reformat,redefine,join,sort,fbe,rollup,scan,pbk,pbe,pbr,pbr,pbp,pbl,merge,concatenate,gather,dedup sort, sort within groups, meta pivot,normalize,
 
2. Air commands
air sandbox run , air tag diff, air lock set,break, release,set,show,reset,air tag create,remove,delete,modify,combine,list,rename

3. Dot .profile
.profile file contains all the intilization commands and the alias names
it setups the environment
it is like a personal assistant setups up everything so that you can work
contains path variables alias and functions

4. Which commands do you know in unix
ls,cd,mv,cat,grep,sed,vi,awk,head,tail,rm,rmdir,mkdir,wc,du,df,
exec,more.less,top,ps,killall,chmod,chown

5. What is index and indexes
index is a data structure use to retrive the data faster.An index is a database object that helps speed up the retrieval of rows from a table or view. 
indexes is the plural form of index.hile indexes improve read performance, they can slow down write operations (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE) because the indexes need to be updated each time the data is modified.

6. Start script and script
start script is run before the grapgh runs in start script we can create directories start the environment and start a database service
end script is run after the graph run completion in end script we can use to cleanup,endservices,send notifications etc


7. Check in and check out 
checkin is feature in abintio to send the changes made in the graph to the public repo
it creates a new version of the graph
it locks
checkout is to get the graph to local workspace from public repo
it locks so that others cannot modify

8. What is the use of dedup component
dedup component is use to remove the duplicates based on the key or column given
it have first ,.last and unique paramters

9. Rollup component and scan component 
rollup is a component which work on grouping the fields based on the key
it gives the aggregate solutions
it also removes duplicates
if you want more input and less output use rollup
max,sum,avg,min, are used in rollup

10. Left outer join
let outer join prints the all the records from left table and only the matching values from the right table

11. Pset and project pset ,how to run pset
pset are a collection of parameters which decides the behaviourof graphs, plans and the objects
these parameters are maintained at the central location hence they are easy to manage, maintain and modify
name,type,value,interpretation are some of the attributes of pset

project set are the variables/paramters which are defined all across the project and it includes all the graphs in the project
configurations all are same to the sandbox present in the project
it is like settings decided to the entire office and all must follow these settings

12. Departition component
pbk,pbr,pbr,pbe,pbp,pbl

13. Sub graph

14. Normalize component
15. What is packages of rollup component how it works step by step.
16. Abinitio rc
it contains all the configuration details and the environment development setting
it is like a cheat sheet decide how your abintio want to work
it contains the passwords username,default parameters, environment variables

17. What is the behavior of rollup component

18. Key chain functions

19. How to run graph in backend
air sandbox run 

20. How to convert serial file to mfs 
by using partitioning components

21. Explain Graph structure

22. Partition by round robin.partition by key.
partition by roundroubin partitions the data based on the block size
partition by key partitions ths data based on the key or column mentioned

23. What is the use of lookup file
1. Brief the components worked with? 
2. What is the internal working of Reformat component?

3. If we have reformat then what is the use of filter by expression component?
in fbe we have deselect port were the data which dosent match the select statement falls into this port , this option is not available in the reformat hene we use fbe

4. what is the functionality of roll up component?
rollup component aggregates the values based on the key and gives single output for each input based on the key given
if you want more input and less output use rollup
min,sum,avg,max kind of aggregate functions can be performed in rollup


5. Difference between roll up and scan?
6. what are the Data source you covered so far?
7. How we use input tables?
8. In oracle how can we get the second highest salary of employee?
SELECT salary
FROM (
    SELECT salary, DENSE_RANK() OVER (ORDER BY salary DESC) AS rank
    FROM employees
)
WHERE rank = 2;

9. Is it possible to take the output file of the graph as the input file to the graph?
no it is possible to take he output file as input file of the graph

10. Phase and check point?
11. Air commands? 
12.Migration from one environment to another environment?
13.How to create a tag?
air tag create rohtith_tag.v1 -file Rohith.txt -exact

14. What is EME?
15. what we do before Editing the graph?
16. What are schedules and what are jobs?
17. Can we use more than one input to the graph?
18. can we join one MFS file with one Serial file?

All the components 
reformat- diff between output index & output indexes explain with example
join
lookup concepts, lookup local

why we use lookup not join component
for less memory usage and faster retrival

driving input in join
ANS:when the check sort is false driving port comes into play the large table will be the driving port and it will do in memory sorting

what is data gathering components like combining components?

what are de-partitioning and partitioning components
what concatenate or gather and interleave merge
string filter_out function
ANS: THIS functionCompares the contents of two strings and then returns a string containing characters that appear in one but not in other.

what is the purpose of roll up, how it is working explain with example?
what is the different between roll up with null key and roll up with a key?
rollup with nllkey consider the data as single group and gives only one ouput where as when you give a key it group the data based on the key and gives output for each group

scan component
diff between sort and dedup sort explain some scenarios 
diff between partition by key and partition by round Robin
major difference between serial and multifile
how to create MFS file?
m_mkfs , by partitioning serial file,

how to convert single file into MFS file?
unix M commands, m_cat and m_ls
m_cat is to show the data in mfiles and m_ls is to list the data in mfs

air commands
           What are the components you used in Abinitio?      
• Scenario, if we have 5 records 1&2 is India,3&4 is Russia and 5 is Russia how will u partition the data as per country
partition by key 

• Difference between Output index and Indexes
• How can u remove the header and footer from the file
• What is DML and what is the use of DML
dml is used to define the structure of the data,datatype and length of the data and also if their are any delimeters in between the data

• What is XFR
ans: an XFR (transform) file is used to define transformation logic. It is a critical part of data processing, allowing you to manipulate and transform data according to specific business rules. The XFR file contains Ab Initio's transformation language code, which is used within components like Reformat, Filter by Expression, and Rollup.

• Senario IP File: 1-1-2022,400(Date, sal)
•                            1-1-2022,200
•                             1-1-2022,300
•                            2-1-2022,300
•                           2-1-2022,200
•                           2-1-2022,400
•                          I need top two records from each grp
• Are you aware of output select function or packages in scan
• Run time behaviour of rollup
• In dedup sort, if i choose null key what will be the output?
• Have you used normalise component explain?
• How to convert serail file to mfs file?
• I have serial file how to convert in to MFS four way partition?
• Are you aware of layout of the component?
• I want to convert four way mfs to serial layout, how can we achieve this?
• Departition components explain?
• Air commands
• How to create tag?
• How you migrate code from one env to another env?
• Are you aware of m_dump command?
m_dump is used to ouput the results based on the expression,it is used to display the  records and the data

• I want to select 15-75 records from a file what is the command?
sed -n '15,75p' data.txt
awk 'NR>=15 && NR<=75' data.txt

• m_dump command?
• How to run pset from the backend?
• .abinitio rc
• what is EME?
• Are u aware of the join component?
• Rollup,scan,join,lookup
• dbc file
• copy command in unix?
• Commands you know in unix?
• Global Parameters
Self introduction
What are the projects you have worked on and explain.
What are the challenges you have faced in project.
How do you migrated the code?
Questions regarding testing in talend?
Questions regarding error handling in talend?
Explain continuous flow in Abinitio in detail?
Join component performance while applying sorted input as true for unsorted data.
it will throw an error as out of sort order

Unix commands, chmod
In which case we use star schema/snowflake schema?
1.what are the components do you know in abinitio
2.explain about sort component
3.explain about rollup component
4.explain about reformat component
5.inner join query, full outer join query
6.next in sequence function
7.do u aware of unix
8.have you implemented self join
1.About previous project
2.Rollup Component - Scenario- if key =Null which record will get to o/p?
id  column
1
2
3 
4
5

3.Reformat -order of execution
4.what is difference b/w phase and checkpoint
5.join-scenario(inner,left-outer)
tableA  tableB
1  1
1  1
1  1
2  1
2  2
3  2
3  2
4  3
  3
  3

6.what is sort - scenario- what is the o/p?
id  Name
1 rakesh
1 abhi
1 sai

7.what is Max-core :scenario - 1gb ,12 mb , which one will first execute?

8.reformat-scenario-10 records : next_in_sequence >5 , what is o/p?

9.reformat - scenario - 3 records - a,b,c,Null - o/p?
if(in.name == a :1; 
 else 0;)
10.how to create a tag in unix ?
Join scenario (inner join,explicit join,full outer join)

File 1 File2
1 1
1 1
1 1
1
1
======================================================================================================================

Input file having 3 fields namely A,B,C given to partition by key(A,B)--->sort(A,B)----IN0 of Join(A,B)

partition by key(A,B)--->sort with in group major key A,minor key B---->in1 of join(A)

Have you got desired output or not..??
====================================================================================================================

rollno,sub1(marks),sub2(marks),sub3(marks)---->required 2nd & 3rd highest marks for each subject
============================================================================================================

how to find 2nd highest salary in each dept--> in SQL
============================================================================================================

how to create a tag
air tag create rohith_tag.v1 -file Rohith.txt -exact
===============================================================================================================

how to change the version of an existing tag
air tag modify 
==================================================================================================================

how to migrate the code from one environment to another environment
=================================================================================================================

difference between two versions
===================================================================================================================
1. About previous project
2. Which graph have design
3. Diff  b/w gather and concatenate
4. How to move a file to another file.
about your self and project
=============================================================================================================
difference between scan & rollup??
==============================================================================================================
Runtime behaviour of Reformat??
==============================================================================================================
difference between output index and output indexes??
if you want one output flow for each input use output index
if you want more than one output flow for each input use output indexes
 
==============================================================================================================
how to migrate code from one environment to another environment??
1. When you joined in Capgemini
2. What is your previous organization
3. What is your passed out year
4. In which project your are worked on previous organisation
5. What is your role in there
6. What is your day to day activities in previous organisation
7. How many days you worked on your previous organisation
8. Have you designed any graphs on Ab initio
9. How can you run a graph in back end
air sandbox run

10. Have you knowledge on Unix
11. Previously you have working experience on Unix
12. What is your current location
13. Are you willing to relocate to Pune
1. You have input file containing records of 3,1,2,5 and need a output of 5,2,1,3 by using Talend
2. Write a query for 11th highest salary

3. Asked a questions on inner join, Left outer join and right outer join 
4. How can you load the 30 to 40 tables at a time in Talend.
5. How can you replace a word in a file, which command is used
sed command

6. How can you create a tag
7. Have you knowledge on air commands
8. You have work experience in Unix
9. What is your previous project
10. Have you work on Ab initio
11. What are the components you aware in Ab initio
ABINITIO>>>
1)Difference btw output index and output indexes?
2)In which component o/p index and o/p indexes exist?
reformat

3)Difference btw reformat and filter by expression?
deselect port is used in fbe and and used in reformat

4)If we have fullname,how u can divide it into firstname,middlename and lastname?
use redfine component and change the dml as you required based on the length


5)Why are you shifting to abinitio?
6)Explain about normalize?
7)Have u worked with any client for abinitio role?
8)How are you practicing,u have to login to any VDI or it installed in your system?

UNIX>>>
1)Explain about versions?
2)How will you migrate code to  one environment to another environment?
3)Can u tell me what are the commands you aware in unix?
4)What is the usage of sed command?

SQL>>
1)write innerjoin query?
2)Query for deleting duplicates?
3)Difference btw delete,drop,truncate?

>>
1)Explain about yourself?
2)Roles and responsibilities in your previous project?
3)Explain about agile methodology?
4)What scheduler have you used?
5)For deploying job which tool have you used and explain about the environment of the tool?

6)You have mentioned that you have worked on scd types,explain about scd type1 and type2?
type 1 the old data will be overideble by the current data
old data and new data will be present in the same table

7)Shift timings of your previous project?
8)Have you worked only weekdays or have you worked on weekends if required?
9)In our project it is required to work on weekends also,are you ok with it?
          1.Previous experience details about my project
          2.What’s your learned in Ab initio training
          3.What are the components your aware
          4.Did you built any graphs
          5.what is usecase of the graphs
          6.are you okay with testing

What are the components do you know abinitio?
Explain the scenarios you have achieved using reformat component?

Order of execution of parameters in reformat component?
reads the intilization parameters
reads input files
applies transformation logic
writes to output record

Explain about rollup component?
Explain about sort component?
Explain about Normalize component?
Explain about layout in component?
Explain about partitioning and departitioning components?
check in and checkout from GDE & dependency analysis?
Talend and Abinitio difference
Tag creation and code migration to higher environments?
kill 9 command?
to kill the process forcefully
The kill -9 command in Unix is used to forcibly terminate a process

Top command?

How to print the 5th line in unix?
sed -n '5p' filename

How to change the time stamp of a file?
touch file name

Inner join & full outer join queries
Introduction
Project Explanation
Scenarios in reformat component, parameters in reformat
Scenarios in rollup
100,1000 
100,1000
101,2000
102,3000
101,1000
102,4000
Scenarios in filter by expression, 100 records all are '1' how filter by expression work for 1=1,
Scenarios in Join, inner Join
100,1000 
100,1000
101,2000
102,3000
101,1000
102,4000
Scenario in Partition by Key
100,1000 
100,1000
101,2000
102,3000
101,1000
102,4000
Explain about Normalize component.
Talend vs abinitio difference.
Unix commands.
• What are the components You worked with.
• What are partition and Departition Components.
• Like the partition components what others we have.
• Which component breaks the Pipeline Parallelism and How.
sort component

• Why we use Partition Components.
to divide or split the data into various parititions so that it will be easy to process and the resources can be managed

• What is the Function of Rollup.
rollup is a component which work on grouping the fields based on the key
it gives the aggregate solutions
it also removes duplicates
if you want more input and less output use rollup
max,sum,avg,min, are used in rollup

• Explain the Partition and Departition Components.
• What is the process of execution in Reformat component.
• If we give the conditions in both the Output Index and Output Indexes means what will happened.
If you specify a value for both the output-index and output-indexes parameters, the value of output-indexes takes precedence at runtime

• If we have 5 records with same name and 3 records with different name using Roll up means How many output records we will get.
ANS: it will give 4 records it groups the 5 records with same name into single field and output 3 records with different name and give totally 4 records

• If we take input file Filter By Expression, reformat component and output file, can we optimize the graph with less flows and How and what will it be.
yes by removing the FBE expression we can write the select statement written in the fbe can be written in reformat select parameter

• What are the Flows in graph.
• How we will use Serial and Multi Files in Partition and Components.
• For MFS Files Can we give cat and display the files.
• How to create a Tag.
• M commands You know.
• How can we display the Files in Particular format in Unix.
ls, ls -l, ls-lrt ls-a ls -lart,tree command,du,find,stat


• What is the Use of M_Dump.
m_dump is to output the results of an expression to stdout , it is particularly used in debugging process allowing you to see the expression at runtime
prints ifo about dml , records and functions
 
• Introduction
• Did u worked on unix in any previous projects?
• Did u worked on any database ? which database?
oracle database

• How many experience u have in sql?
• Architecture of A>I.
GDE,component library,3rdparty component, eme,co>op,native operating system(unix)

• What is the function of EME?
eme is public repo where all the graphs,objects,plans are stored
used for version control and impact analysis
the graphs that are stored in eme will be available to everyone present in the same project


• A file contains 40gb. Then that file will present in EME or not?
you cannot store large files in eme instead of it use filesysytems like hdfs and various other databases and datawarehouse
the metadata of this filesys and database can be stored in eme like file location,path,

• Difference between Reformat and Filter By Expression.
deselect port is available in fbe but not in reformat all the recors that failed in the select exp are moved into the deselect port an this is not available in reformart
and also transformation logic are not avaialabe in fbe
  
• What will be the output if we keep a null key in Join.
null key in join gives cross join

• What will be the output if we keep a null key in rollup.
will group in to single output
it will consider the whole input as single group and give one output

• What will be the output if we keep a null key in dedup sort.
if we give null key it will only give one output for n number of input if you mention first it will give the first value and if you mention last it will give you last and if you mention unique it will give blank output

• What is .profile and what is abinitio RC?
• Are you heard about consent plan?

• In Input file a column having full name. In o/p I need first, middle & last names are required In 3different columns.


• In I/P file 10 records are there. I need only 5th & 10th record. How will u get this?

• There are millions of records in I/P file. How can u capture the every 5th and 10th line.
sed -n '0~5p' input_file > output_every_5th.txt

• Do u aware of string scenarios in A>I.
• What is the use of String substring?
string substring is used to extract substrings from larger strings based on specific start position and length

• How u do the project setup?
• How to use WC in Unix.
• Do u know about awk command? Explain the one scenario.
• How do u print the manager word by using awk command.

• Explain any scenario except list command?
• Write a query to find the duplicate records in SQL. Write a query in chat.

• Where we use where condition and having condition?
• A table having Emp_id & dept_id, I need dept wise  number of employees . Write a query in chat
• How to find second highest salary ? write a query in chat.
• Are you intrested  working in additional hours and Weekends?
• Why you are shifting From your Background to Ab Initio.
• Explain How you implemented scd type 2 in talend?
• Which scheduler you used in previous project? Explain about it?
• Introduction
• What are the components You worked in Ab Initio.
• Tell me the Difference between Output Index and Output Indexes.
• Difference between Reformat and Filter By Expression.
• What is the Process in Partition By Round  Robin and can we take any number of outputs.
• What are departition  Components.
• Have you Implemented any graphs using Departition Components.
• Do you Know about Gather.
• How you Migrate the code to any other Environment.
• How to Create a Tag.
• How Can I see Your Graphs in My environment.
• What is the Command for Check-In a graph from back end.
• What happened if we keep a null key in Join.
• What happens if we keep a Null key in dedup sort.
• Did You hear about SCP command in Unix.
• SFTP Full Form.
• How to use WC in Unix.
• Which Database you have used so Far.
• How to display the duplicate values in SQL.
• Tell me the query If I have a Roll Numbers 1 to 100 and there is a department column. I want to display the Number of Persons in each department.
• Why you are shifting From your Background to Ab Initio.
.Introduction?
.project explanation?
.diff b/w fact and dimensional tables?
.we have employee table in that we have emp address col where it will be stored in fact or dimensional table?
.how the fact and dimensional are releted?
.what is the conformed dimensional?
.what is factless fact table?
.diff b/w star and snowflake schema?
.how to read the data in Ab initio?
.what is the use of dml?
.if we dont give dml what happend?
.what is reformat component?
.what is the use of select parameter in reformat?
.we have i/p file with 100 records in select parameter we have next in seq>1 what is the output?
.what about sort component?
.what is rollup?
.in rollup if we have null key  what will be output?
.In rollup explain template mode and expanded mode?
.diff b/w scan and rollup?
.how to get the header of the file in unix?
.how to remove the header of the file?
.how to remove the footer?
.how to find length of the string?
.We have file with 10000 records we have to print 100 records of file how it?
.we have a file with pipe delimeter we want to get the last col from the file how will get?
.col A,col B,col C............ how to print last col?
.what is the use of awk command with example?
.how to print 100th record of file?
.dhanalakshmi is replace with Anil ban which command you use?
sed 's/dhanalaskhmi/anil/g' file.txt

.how to remove duplicates from oracle?
.there is a emp table we have col emp id,name,country write a query whose name start with letter b?
SELECT emp_id, name, country
FROM emp
WHERE name LIKE 'B%';

.what are the joins in sql?
.what is the cross join?
.diff b/w primary key and unique key?
.write a query if i want to sort the data in descending order in emp table?
.what is the diff b/w union and union all?
.what is minor query?
.what is the diff b/w group by and having?
.what is the diff b/w table and view?
1)Introduction?
2)What have you learned in abinitio?
3)Explain about SCD types?
4)Brief about implementation of scd type2?
5)Why we use partitions?
6)joins in ab initio?
7)Do you know about shell scripting?
8)Have you done check in check out of the graph?
9)Query to find count of records?
10)Query to identify the duplicates?
11)How you will read the file contents?
12)Have you created plan?
13)How you read the data in table in abinitio?
14)Can we sort the data in sql?
15)If we have no delimitor how you write dml and how you will read the data?
14)After check in of graph to modify it first what you have to do?
15)You have worked on abinitio for 3 years, are you comfortable to change abinitio?
1. Introduction 
2.explain briefly what you done previously and which organization 
3. explain your previous project 
4.what is dimension table
5.what is fact table 
6.fact vs dimension 
7.explain star schema 
8.explain scd types
9.explain implementation of scd type 2
10.what is your roles and responsibilities 
11.what do u learned in abinitio 
12.rollup component 
13.join component 
14.how to remove duplicate, query 
15.index Indexes
16.what is definition of lart 
17.sed command
18.find command
19.error handling
20what is confirmed dimension 
21.m_dump command uses
22. Do u have any questions to ask
1. Introduce yourself.
2. What is reformat component

3. If input file have 100 records, in reformat select parameter we give Next_in_sequence>1  what will be the output and why
ANS: 99 records will be in the output,the record with seq=1 will be removed and will give the output of 99 recs

4. If input file have 10 records, in filter by expression select parameter give 1==1. What is the output
ANS: all 10 recs will be in the output because 1=1 will be considered as true

5. If input file have 10 records, in filter by expression select parameter give 1==0. What is the output
ANS: no recs will be in the output because 1=0 will be considered as false

6. What is rollup
7. If input file have 10 records, In rollup key parameter set to null what is the output
if key is set to null the whole group is considered as single group and based on transformation logic will give only single output

8. You have knowledge on scan
9. Have you aware join
10. What is max core
11. What component you find max core parameter
12. Difference between max core and max memory
13. Difference between output index and output indexes
14. What are joins in Ab initio
15. Scenario an joins
16. Are you aware on air commands
17. How to create tag

18. What is use of “-exact”
ANS: this command is to return the value which match the specified criteria given, when you are specific of what you want
after -exact

19. How you check in the graph in backend
20. What is use of “-basedir”
21. How lock the graph in back end
22. How can you remove the header 
23. How can you remove the footer
24. How to print 50 to 70 records in file
25. How to print last column in a file
26. What is m_dump
27. How to get id 1, 2,3,4 records by using m_dump
28. What m_rollaback
29. Query for removing duplicates
30. Difference between Delete and Truncate
31. How can I permanently delete record after using Delete command
32. Difference between Truncate and Drop
33. What is indexes in Sql
34. Difference between unique key and primary key in constraints
35. How to create a table
1)When you have joined in CG?
2)Explain about Ab initio .rc?
3) Explain about plan?
4) Explain about pset?
5) Explain about rollup?
6) Explain about scan?
7) Explain difference between output index and output indexes?
8)Explain about joins?
9)How to print 5th field in unix?
10)Can you replace your name with othername in unix?
11) Explain about SCD types?
1.what is .abinitiorc?
2.what is pset?
3.what is rollup and scan?
4.what is manage connection?
5.If we have i/p file 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8 1 by using dedupsort remove the duplicates?
6.what is plan?
7.which command is use for diff two files?
8.diff b/w scd type 1 and type2?
9.command for doing checkin?
• What is Ab Initio rc file.
• What is the Manage connections.
• Using Dedup sort remove the duplicates for 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8 1.
• What is pset.
• What is plan.
• What is Rollup.
• What are SCD types.
• Command for doing Checkin.
• What happens if we do export.
• Do you interested In Testing.
• Do You Know about Hdfc, Hive.
• What You are aware about Ab>I.
• What is the difference between RollUp and Scan.
• Give an example using RollUp.
• What are the Components You are aware in Ab>I.
• Did you done any testings in Ab>I.
• What is the use of reformat.
• Difference Between Output Index and Output Indexes in Reformat.
• What are the parameters in Rollup.
• Are you aware of air commands.
• What is Sandbox.
• Tell me What are the air commands you know.
• Why we use Tag.
• How to do checkout using air command.
• What was the extension you give to save a graph.
• What is .xfr.
• Do you about MFS.
• How you enable EME connections.
• Which database you worked with.
• What is the version of oracle you worked.
• What is the difference between UNION and UNION ALL.
• How to get the 10th highest salary from the table employee.
• A table as 1,0,Null,-1,Null and B table as 0,1,2,Null,-1,-2,Null What will be the output for Inner Join.
• Write a query for LeftJoin.
• Joins.
• Multiple File Components.
• How much you know about Unix.
• How to display a Files above 30MB.
find . -type f -size +30M

• How to display lines 15 to 20 and 25 to 30 in unix.
• Why you are shifting to Ab>I.
1.introduction
2.brief on your projects
3.error handling
4.what kind of unit testing u have done
5.udate and insert 
6.null and not null 
7.source to target count testing
8.about unix
9.length of string
10.to replace which command you are using
11.about grep command
12.file content in unix
1.how many years of experience?
2.explain your previous project?
3.scd type2 implementation?
4.do you aware of Abinitio components?
5.explain join component in scd type2?
• Brief indroduction.
• Difference between fact and dimension Table.
• Star schema and snow flake schema.
• Scd types.
• Example of scd types.
• OLAP and OLTP.
• How you are aware about unix.
• File1:
1
234
555
fdsfvdfv
bbbb
@#$!)&*^
            command to arrange values in a file in descending order.
• tell me the command to list all the file and folder available in a directory arranged in reverse order with respect to time. And it should include all your hidden files as well?
• File name : test.txt
error
Error
error
ERROR
            how do you find a string - error irrespective of it's case in unix?
• file1 :
1
234
555
fdsfvdfv
bbbb
@#$!)&*^
            how to print last line of file
• How to create a file using echo.
• copy the employee table data to employee_hr table for department=HR
• Write down query to give me number of records who are not tagged to any department
• dept table
• dep id   dept name 
10        ABC
20        DEF
30        GHI
40        JKL
50        MNO 
• emp table 
• emp id    emp name   dep id
1           A           10
2           B           10
3           C           20
4           D           30
5           E           40
6           F           50
7           G           50
• need output with dept name and count of employee in each department
1.indroduction
2.starschema snowflake schema
3.scd types
4.explain scd type 2 implementation 
5.example of fact less fact table
6.OLAP VS OLTP
7.list of object in sample.tag
8.test. dml news it.dat
9.m dump command
10.fact vs dimension 
11.file name log.txt, error,ERROR,Error,error
Which command u use write full in chat 
12. Why turned into abinitio 
13do u have any questions to ask
1.introduce what u have done previously 
2.when did you joined CG
3.fact vs dimension table
4.scd types explain
5.what do u learned in abinitio 
6.explain rollup
7.difference between rollup and scan
8.reformat component 
9.output index output Indexes
10.what is the parameter of filter by expression 
11.explain parallelism in abinitio 
12.how do u enable eme connections 
13.what is abinitio rc
14.sandox pset vs project pset
15.checkin checkout from backend 
16.which database u r worked earlier 
17.how to get 10th highest salary from Employe table
18.how about you in unix
19.how to display lines from 15 to 25
20.how to display sige of above 60 mb file
21.what is 777 in chmod
1.self introduction
2.how comfortable using Abinitio?
3.you worked in reformat?
4.diff b/w output index and output indexes?
5.do you aware of lookup?
6.diff b/w lookup and join?
7.what are frequently used unix commands?
8.how do create multi file in backend?
9.do you aware of partition component?
10.diff b/w prr and pbk?
11.do you aware of departition components?
12.are you comfortable with sql commands>
13.write a query for 3rd highest sal?
1)Self introduction?
2)Are you interested in testing?
3)What you have learned in abinitio?
4)Difference between Rollup and Scan?
5)What happens if we give 99 in select parameter in filter by expression?
6)what happens if we pass null key in rollup?
7)what happens if we pass null key in scan?
8)Difference between Output index and Output indexes?
9)Explain about partition by RR and partion by key?
10)Explain about interleave?
11)What is the use of check in and check out?
12)Command for check out from unix?
13)Find the files which are of 100 days ago and remove them?
14)Replace ram with shyam after the 5th occurrence?
sed '0,/ram/{s/ram/shyam/5}' input.txt > output.txt

15)Replace ram with shyam in all places?
sed 's/ram/shyam/g' input.txt > output.txt

16)Print only 10th column in a file?
awk '{print $10}' input.txt

17)Write a query  to find the 10th highest salary? 
SELECT Salary
FROM (
    SELECT Salary, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY Salary DESC) AS RowNum
    FROM Employees
) AS RankedSalaries
WHERE RowNum = 10;

18)Write a query to delete duplicates?
19)Have you gone through any interview for Barclays?
20)After completion of work what will you do?
21)Have you done testing before?
22)What are your hobbies?
23)What is the ongoing cricket series?
24)What is the result of first match?
1)Self introduction?
2)What do you know about PL SQL?
3)What are the unix commands you have used?
4)Which database you have used?
5)Are you ok to learn new tool if required?
1.indroduction 
2.what are dimension types
3.explain scd2
4.what is fact and dimension 
5.what you know in abinitio 
6.types of parallelism in abinitio 
7.how to display fist 10 lines and last 10 lines in unix
8.how do u list out the recent files in unix
9.what is vi and cat
10.explain grep
11.if your team member done wrong while developing, what do u do
12.do u have any questions 
1.what background you are
2.how about u on abinitio 
3.difference between rollup and scan
5.how about u in unix
6. How do u list files
7.mdump command ,grep
1.what are done previously 
2.what kind of projects u have done
3.what is your previous organization 
4.when did u joined in CG
5.how good in abinitio 
6. Types of parallelism in abinitio 
7.difference between scan and rollup 
8.joins where and having  
9. How many days u got training on abinitio 
1.difference bw output index , output indexes with example
2. segeragate the age , sinior citizen into one flow, other people into one flow
3.H|2021-01-01
B|abc,10,2021-10
B|def,11,2021-09
B|xyz,12,2021-08
T|10   , How to read this  

4.How to read only Header, Trailer and Body seperately.

5.How Rollup works, diff bw scan and Rollup
6.what mean by Never abort and abort on first rejection
7. what you worked on AWS
8. How Normalize will work 
9.How to compare body records with trailer records
10. How to fetch first 10 lines
11. How to fetch last 10 lines
12. one example for grep command
13.which compoenet will work same as Reformat.
14. How to define depth in Read HDFS compoenent.
15.How to read fixed length dml.
16.what is driving port 
17.what type of joins we can see in join
18.How explicit join will work
19.which partition will work to distribute the data equally
20.how partition by key work
21.worked on Partition by expression in real time?
22.if we use explicit join , wich parameters get added there
1. SED
2. Filter by expression
3. Join, Rollup, Scan, Sort, Dedup sort
4. Driving port
5. lookup, lookup local
6. find all the words in the column ending with abc using unix
 grep '\<[a-zA-Z]*abc\>' filename

7. emp salary greater than manager salary using sql
SELECT e.emp_id, e.emp_name, e.salary, m.salary AS manager_salary
FROM employees e
JOIN employees m ON e.manager_id = m.emp_id
WHERE e.salary > m.salary;

8. find particular pattern files using unix
1.introduce about you.
2.explain your previous project
3.how many of years of experience in abinitio
4.what did you learn in abinitio
5.why talend to abinitio and whats is the differences you observed
6.do you know salesforce 
7.explain rollup component
8.partition by round robin
9.departion components
10.how do you get the data from servers
11.how long you got training in abinitio
12. if I give a chance how  much time you need to perfect
13.i am done from my side do you have any questions to ask
1. explain about your project roles and responsibilities
2. Any knowledge on unix?
3. How to read a file in unix
4. How to edit the file in unix
5. How to find duplicates for a emp in sql
SELECT emp_id, COUNT(*) AS duplicate_count
FROM employees
GROUP BY emp_id
HAVING COUNT(*) > 1;

6. Have you worked on any testing projects before?
7. did you worked on how to load the tables ?
1.explain what you have done previously
2. what is fact and dimension
3.what is rank ,dense , row 
4.how do you load the data in talend
5.what did you learned in abinitio 
6.what about unix
1. difference between rollup and scan
2. what are partition and departition components
3.explain partition by round robin
4.require output as per customer id and per item scenario
5.how to remove header and trailer records
6.m_dump command usage
7.difference between output index and output indexes
8.join parameters
9.what all components you know in abinitio
10.list down few air commands
11.without join component how you perform inner join
12.how to remove duplicate records
1.introduction
2.project explain
3.when you did your MSc after that what u have done
4.what did you learned in abinitio 
5.explain rollup and reformat
6.join scenario
7.how do you replace word in unix
8.grep command
9.talend vs abinitio 
10. do you have any questions
1. How much I know regarding AB initio, Unix, SQL
2. My previous projects
3. Partition by key component
4. all the components I know in AB initio
5. How much I will rate myself in AB initio & Unix
1. Output index & output indexes
2. Join & lookup
3. Types of join & scenario regarding that
4. nested query in SQL
5. Port fields from the data in UNIX
1. Components I'm comfortable with
2. Check-out
3. Output index and output indexes
4. Diff between roolup & scan
5. EME
6. Remove duplicate records usinf abinitio
7. Dedup sort
8. Sort component
1. About my myself
2. What all I know in AB initio
3. SQL queries ( using HAVING, ORDER BY, GROUP BY)
4. Unix ( FIND, GREP)
5. Project I did in my graduation
6. What did I do using Qlikview
7. What challenging scenario I faced while working on AB initio
1.what is your roles and responsibilities 
2.how was your abinitio training
3.what are the components do you know
4.explain rollup and scan  difference
5.how about unix what do you know
6.to replace which command you use
>About my tenure in past company.
>Details about project.
>Components that I have learnt in training on Ab Initio.
>Reformat and its parameters.
>Tell me about Lookup File.
>Types of Joins,  join parameters and what happen to data when we do Inner join for non-matched records.
>Roll and Scan component and its uses.
>Scheduling tools and its monitoring.
>SCD types and about SCD type 2 working and usage.
>Partitioning in Ab Initio and its components.
>Difference between concatenate, merge and gather.
>Why Round robin used mostly.
Self- Introduction
Previous Employment- Exp Roles and Responsibilities 
Unix Commands(Sed Awk Grep And Air Commands)
Ab Initio Concepts 
Components like Roll up, Look up ,scan, Transform ,Join and Normalize
Max Core Value, Driving port 
Psets and  Plans

Join Types of Joins

Look Up Functions,

SQL Topics 
Data Ware Housing Concepts 

Ab Initio Scenarios,
Architecture of Ab Initio
Role of Co-op system in Ab Initio
Dependency Analysis (Brief)
How do you connect the EME to Ab  Initio Server 
Difference between Look Up file and Look up Function in Ab Initio 
Types of Parallelism used in Ab Initio
Sort Component ,Reformat,Aggregates
Dedup and Replicate Component 
Partition Components 

Air Commands in Ab Initio 
Roll Up Component 
Syntax for m_dump in Ab Initio
1. Can you Introduce Yourself.
2. Can you explain your previous project.

Data Ware House & ETL:
1. How you will check whether the I/P file received is not Duplicate/Previous record.
2. How you will get source daily (Which Format - Table or File) .
3. How will you process data daily (batch wise or real time.
4. How you will load your data in to data ware house .
Santhosh:
1. If file has not came on particular day how will your mapping works
2. What is the Purpose of event wait and email task
Sai:
1. Can you explain the flow how you will map your input to the output

SQL :
1. What are types of Joins ,Can you explain.
2. What the difference between Full Outer Join & Union
3. How to convert Date to string or String to date.
4. Do you know about Select Case.
Santosh:
1. what is stored procedure
2. what is view 
Sai:
1. What is a Having Clause.
2. What are Aggregate Functions.

Unix :
1. How to find a particular String in a file .
2. How to find a file In a directory.
1.Introduce Yourself (previous exp and Projects).
2.Difference between Reformat & FBE.
3.Explain about Normalize Component.
4.I have a one file, Remove Header, Trailer and Body Part Separately.
5.I have a input file of 100 records, i need 10 records in each file.
pbr, blocksize 10

6.Explain about Performing Tuning Techniques
7.What are the Different Components you know in Abinitio
8.Explain about M-Commands?  and what is m_dump, m_Partition.
9.Explain Air Commands and tell me commands for Check in, check out, creating tag, List the versions and tags, Differences between two versions.
10.Loading Methods In Output Table and Differences between them (Api,Utility)
11.how to Migrate/Deploy code.
12.where you will get Requirement, how will you develop and migrate it.
13.which scheduling tool you are using.
14.Do you have exp in Production Side.
15.what is the queries for Removing and finding Duplicates
16.Wht is Fact and dimension tables and difference between them
17.Explain about SCD types ,differences between them
18.expalian about SCD type2 in abinitio
19.what are the commands you know in UNIX.
20.I have  file of 100 records, i want to print 10-15th records. 
1.Differences between Output index & Indexes?
2.Differences between Rollup & Scan?
3.Explain about Normalize component?
4.what is Next-in-Sequence?
5.what happened when we pass null key in Rollup & Scan?
6. what is lookup file and explain?
7.i have two inputs  ino  in1      what would be the inner join?
                      1       2
       2        3
1 1 
8. I have a input file  ABCD , I want to print output as    A   which component is used to get output?
                                                                                    B
                                                                                         C 
                         D    
9. what is output table 
10. Differences between SCD type1,2,3 
11. what are the components used in scd1 graph?  what is the usage of trash component
12. Second highest salary Query
13. What is DBC file and what DBC file contains
14. I have a input file of 100 records i want to print 1 to 3rd records
• Tell me about yourself.
• Explain about project which you had worked in your previous organisation.
• What is ETL and what is Ab initio.
• What are all the components u worked on?
• What is reformat component.
• What is wrapper script in Ab initio.
• What is CDC process in Ab initio
• What is Rollup and scan components and how it works.
• Difference b/w rollup and scan components.
• What is Plan.
• Tell me the commands in which you have worked on unix.
• Scenario question on unix command – how to replace vidya by Jadhav.
• Sql scenario question – how to find 7th highest salary.
• Sql scenario question – write a query to find distinct emp salary.
• Ab initio scenario question- you have some data in input file then how you find that data in reverse order.
• Ab initio scenario question – table 1 (1 million data) table 2 (1000 records) then in how many ways you can join the table.
• Ab initio scenario question – table 1 (1 million data) table 2 (1000 records it is 4 way MFS) then how can you join the table.
• Ab initio scenario question – in input file 250 records you have to fetch only 150th record to output file.
• Ab initio scenario question – in input file 250 records in 4 way MFS and you have to fetch only 150th record to output file.
• Tell me about yourself.
• Explain about project which you had worked in your previous organisation.
• What are all the components u worked on?
• What is reformat component.
• What is output index and output indexes explain with examples.
• Tell me the commands in which you have worked on unix.
• Scenario question on unix command – how to replace suyash by vidya in 1st occurance.
• Explain grep command, how to display specific word.
• How to delete 5th line from file in unix.
sed '5d' input_file
• How to delete last line from file in unix.
sed '$d' input_file
• How to delete 2nd last line from file in unix.
• Difference between tmap tjoin.
• What is difference between lookup and lookup match.
• What is star schema.
• What is dimension table and explain types of dimensions.
• What is fact table and its types?
• Types of joines in talend.
• What is SCD. What is types of SCD.
• Difference between SCD1 and SCD2. 
• Explain SCD2 with example.
• Ab initio scenario question- 
Input-                                       output-
Country      city                      Country      city                      
India            MP                      India            MP,MH,HP
India            MH                      US                NY,chicago
India            HP
Us                NY
Us                Chicago

• Ab initio scenario question- 
Input file-  Id    marks                 lookup file    id    name                    
                     1        90                                         1       vidya
                     2        30                                         2       suyash
                     3        60                                         3       nisarg
                     4        70
What will be the output.

• Ab initio scenario question –
Input file-    1           2            3                            
                     10      name      mahesh                                    
                     20       name     priyanka                                  
                     10       age         25                             
                     20       age         30

output 
                   Id           name       age
                  10          mahesh      25
                                 20         priyanka     30
             What we have to perform to get this output.
• Tell me about yourself.
• Explain about project which you had worked in your previous organisation.
• What are all the components u worked on?
• What is reformat component.
• What is output index and output indexes explain with examples?
• Tell me about awk command?
• Scenario question on Unix command – how to replace harshit  by agrawal in 3rd occurrence.
sed '0,/harshit/{0,/harshit/{0,/harshit/s/harshit/agrawal/}}}' filename
sed -i 's/harshit/agrawal/3' filename

• How to use Subtract in sql?
• How to seggregate file with multiple header and footer in Unix/Abinitio.
• Explain Dummy table in sql?
• What is grep -q used for?
The grep -q command is used in Unix/Linux to search for a pattern quietly
prints only
0: Indicates that the pattern was found.
1: Indicates that the pattern was not found.
2: Indicates that there was an error (e.g., the file does not exist).

• Sed command extension to delete a line in file with matching string?
sed -i '/banana/d' example.txt
to delete a particular line
sed -i '2d' example.txt

• What is DWH?
• What is star and snowflake schema?
• Types of Dimensions and facts in DWH?
• What is scd1 and scd2?
• Dense rank and rank in sql?
• rollup component usecase?
• Difference between redefine format and reformat?
• Explain checkin and check out?
• Ab initio scenario question-
Input-                                       output-
Country      city                      Country      city                     
India            MP                      India            MP,MH,HP
India            MH                      US                NY,chicago
India            HP
Us                NY
Us                Chicago

• Highest salary using rank?
• Ab initio scenario question –
convert ball vs run data to over vs run data
1> Introduction about candidate.
2> Tell me Brief about project(in depth discussion, Daily task, Responsibilities).
3> Difference between touch and Cat command.
touch is  to create an empty file
cat is is used to create, append and override the data in file
 
4> How to find particular file in system ==> Find Command.
5> Find command and Grep major difference.
find command is used to search for files and directories
grep command is used search a particular pattern in a file

6> Oracle Sequence and partition concept.
7> About Oracle.
8> Deployment process.
9> Difference between Union and Outer join.
10> Tell me about types of data you handled and Files.
11> How to promote application from one environment to another.
Tell me about yourself
Your educational Qualifications
What are the components you have trained
What is partition components and deportation components
UNIX commands
sed 
grep
cat command its uses
What is DWH and its topics
Facts and dimensions
Star schema and snowflake schema
SCD types
third highest salary in SQL
He is asking Tivoli scheduling tool.
1) What is AI_TEST_FLAG, AB_PLAN_LOOP_CURRENT_VALUE
AI_TEST_FLAG: Imagine you have a graph that processes a large dataset. During development, you want to test this graph without processing the entire dataset. You could set AI_TEST_FLAG to enable a mode that only processes a small sample of the data.

AB_PLAN_LOOP_CURRENT_VALUE: Suppose you have a plan that runs a graph multiple times for different input files. AB_PLAN_LOOP_CURRENT_VALUE would hold the current file's index, allowing you to log which file is being processed or apply specific logic based on the file number.

2) What is resource pool?
3) Suppose I have input file with 100 records flowing through FBE with select as “(1+1)==2”, what is expected output ?
4) Which is the simplest component that can drop fields apart from reformat and redefine format?
I have 4 fields in input file and want 2 fields in output file. 

5) I have an transaction file with below details, i want sum of debits and sum of credits for an account in a day
Input file : 
Account number | transaction type | transaction amount | date
123 | debit | 40 | 20230501
123 | credit | 0  | 20230501        
123 | debit | 45 | 20230501

Output file :
Account number | sum of debits | sum of credits | date
123 | 85 | 0 | 20230501

6) Can you provide solution to below scenario : 
Input : 
Bangalore | Chennai | 130
Chennai | Bangalore | 130
Mysore | Lucknow | 700
Calcutta | Delhi | 500
Delhi | Calcutta | 500

Output :
               Bangalore | Chennai | 130
Mysore | Lucknow | 700
Delhi | Calcutta | 500

7) Build a generic graph . Consider I have a file having header, body and trailer.
6a . First separate the header , body and trailer in to different flows.
6b . Do header validation i,e date in file should be same as transaction date
6c . take the body count and compare it with trailer data, which is trailer validation.

Note , input file doesn’t have records identifier as H,B,T
Input files : 
File 1 : 
H|20230227
B|rajesh
T|100

File 2 : There are no body records, but you generic graphs should execute successfully as trailer count is 0
H|20230227
T|0

8) Suppose I have 100 tables to be unloaded , build a plan to unload 10 tables at a time.
9) Print last but one column data using unix commands
      1|2|3|4
      2|3|4
      3
      4|5|6
     5
     7|8|9|10|11
1.Self intro, previous project, etc
2.components I have worked on

3. .profile
4. .abinitiorc
5. what is .rec

6.How can we get this o/p from ritwik
r

i

t

w

i

k


7.How to print the position of the char in a given word

 

I have a input like:
Column_name:
Indicator
YNNYYN
NNNYYN
YYYYYN
NNNNNN

 

REQUIRED O/P:
Where the Y is present in a given string, i want position of the string with CONCATENATE of P Letter. 

8.reformat runtime behaviour
reformat all parameters
output index and indexes difference

9.max_core value of join and rollup
10.m_commands
11.rollup 
12.Normalize component
13.air commands
14.m_dump command 
finding -start and -end data

15.what will be the output of rollup having 4way MFS while we provide key = NULL
16.string functions - is_blank()
data-->
17.date()
18.
19.
data-->
ritwik
yash
Kumar

find blank data/null data

20. filter by expression
1. Tell me About yourself?
2. Tell me about your projects?
3. What components you Trained in Abinitio?
4. Run time behaviuor of sort component?
5. What is rollup and scan?
6. Difference between rollup and scan?
7. What is difference between reformat and filter by expression?
8. What is lookup? Difference between lookup and join?
9. How to find 2 Nd highest salary in Abinitio?
10. How to find 2 Nd highest salary in SQL?
11. What is SCD and explain its types?
12. How to implement SCD type 2 in talend?
13. What is difference between WHERE and HAVING?
14. Tell me about ETL? What is DWH? Explain the process?
15. Did you worked on Hadoop?
16. Types of schema? Difference between star schema and snowflake schema?
17. Difference between Drop Delete Truncate?
18. What is DDL DML DCL?
19. What is rank dense rank difference between them?
20. What is difference between group by and having?
21. In Input file wh have records 1 – 100 I output we want in two different file in one file all even records and in another file all odd records.
22. Question
Table 1          Table 2
1                         1
1                         1
1                         1
1
Howmany no of records present in 
left outer
right outer
full outer
inner joins

23. Question
Input
Name   gender   state                                       
Vidya   F             MH
pooja   F             MH
Vijay    M            HP
Prafull M           MH
Aarti    F             HP
Output
Statewise male female count ? which key  you will give in talend and in abinitio?


24. FIND and Delete Duplicates SQl Query ?
25. What is primary key, foreign key ?
26. Difference between primary key foreign key? What is surrogate key? What is candidate key?
27. What is join? How many types of join there are in SQL? Explain each?
28. Difference between join and union?
29. How to find name vidya from the file? 
grep "vidya" file.txt

30. We want all the file except file which include vidya?
31. what means of -o in grep command?
ANS: -o: Option to print only the matched parts of a matching line, rather than the entire line.

32. how to find specific file in unix?
33. how to find file which we have make 30 days back?
34. how to delete 1 to 5th record from file?
35. How to print only 5th and 7th records from file?
1) Do you know CDC , what is SCD type 2
2) How do you run a script in backend , what is nohup. 
3) Difference between truncate and delete
4) what is cksum?

5) I have an input file as below : 
Acct_no | Cust_no | cust_name | cust_adress
1111 | 101 | A | xyz
1111 | 102 | B | qrt
1111 | 103 | c | rty

I want vector data of customers for an account
Acct_no | customer_details
1111    | Cust_no | cust_name | cust_adress
                101  | A | xyz
                102 | B | qrt
                103 | c | rty
                               

I have an input file as  below
consider a customer has 1000 initial balance , we want to generate balance at each transaction.
Cust name | transaction type  | transaction amount | Balance
X         | debit             | 1000               | 0
X         | credit            | 500                | 500
X         | credit            | 500                | 1000
X         | debit             | 500                | 500

1) What is AI_TEST_FLAG, AB_PLAN_LOOP_CURRENT_VALUE
2) What is resource pool?
3) Suppose I have input file with 100 records flowing through FBE with select as “(1+1)==2”, what is expected output ?
The condition (1+1) == 2 is a constant expression that always evaluates to true. Since this condition is always true, the FBE component will not filter out any records. All records from the input file will pass through the filter unchanged.

4) Which is the simplest component that can drop fields apart from reformat and redefine format?
I have 4 fields in input file and want 2 fields in output file. 
use rollup which removes duplicates

5) I have an transaction file with below details, i want sum of debits and sum of credits for an account in a day
Input file : 
Account number | transaction type | transaction amount | date
123 | debit | 40 | 20230501
123 | credit | 0  | 20230501        
123 | debit | 45 | 20230501

Output file :
Account number | sum of debits | sum of credits | date
123 | 85 | 0 | 20230501

6) Can you provide solution to below scenario : 
Input : 
Bangalore | Chennai | 130
Chennai | Bangalore | 130
Mysore | Lucknow | 700
Calcutta | Delhi | 500
Delhi | Calcutta | 500

Output :
               Bangalore | Chennai | 130
Mysore | Lucknow | 700
Delhi | Calcutta | 500

7) Build a generic graph . Consider I have a file having header, body and trailer.
6a . First separate the header , body and trailer in to different flows.
6b . Do header validation i,e date in file should be same as transaction date
6c . take the body count and compare it with trailer data, which is trailer validation.

Note , input file doesn’t have records identifier as H,B,T
Input files : 
File 1 : 
H|20230227
B|rajesh
T|100

File 2 : There are no body records, but you generic graphs should execute successfully as trailer count is 0
H|20230227
T|0

8) Suppose I have 100 tables to be unloaded , build a plan to unload 10 tables at a time.
9) Print last but one column data using unix commands
      1|2|3|4
      2|3|4
      3
      4|5|6
     5
     7|8|9|10|11
1) I have a csv file with 100 fields eg : cust_id, cust_name, product_details , product_cost, etc
These fields are not in same order in the file which comes daily from partner.
Day 1 : cust_id, cust_name, product_details , product_cost, etc
Day 2 : product_details, cust_id, cust_name, product_cost etc.

Design a graph to pick only cust_id and product_cost from this csv file always.

2) Source file has date in format “3/04/2023”, how will you convert to proper date format “DD/MM/YYYY”?
3) Read files of same format from a directory and create 1 output file.
Eg : customer_20230501.dat, customer_20230502.dat, customer_20230503.dat etc.
            b) Read files of same format from a directory within date range (20230501 to 20230505)  (clue : fetch date from file and filter on it)

4) I have a 4 way partitioned file in server 1 and I want to copy to another server which is 8 way partitioned, how will you do it?
5) What is .abinitiorc?
6) Difference between sandbox and project pset.
7) What are looping concepts in plans?
8) How will you mentioned resource pool in a plan.
9) How to read XML file?
10) What is dependency analysis, can you mention components that will break lineage.
11) I have an input file with below details.
Country_Name | Transaction_id | customer_id

What is the issue with below graph? Is it well structured?
I/P file -> reformat - > sort - > FBE - > PBRR - > Rollup(Country name) to get total transaction amount
12) I have an mfs file with 1M records with fields (product details|product cost | customer details)
And I have a serial lookup file with (product details | product description)
What is the best way to build a graph?
1.Tell me about your self ?
2.Tell me about your previous project ?
3.how to get fullname along with space from input file its having firstname and lastname in abinitio
4.difference between output index and output indexes?
5.how to split all states into different files in abinitio ?
6.difference between scd type1 and type2 and type3 ?
7.how to implement scd type2 in abinitio ?
8.how to implement scd type2 from day1 ?
9.how to get firstletter only capital rest all are capital ?
10.what are string functions you aware of ?
11.what are the m_commands you aware of ?
12.what are the date functions you aware of ?
13.have you worked on data analysis and data leanage ?
14.what are the joins perform by using join component?
15.if you having unsorted data how will you perform join ?
16.difference between diff and comparison command in unix ?

17.sort the record and find uniq records and delete duplicate in unix ?
18.how to find 100 days back file and delete it ?
19.difference between star schema and snowflake schema?
20.how to delete parent key values without daleting the child table values ?
21.what if foreign key ?
22. difference between ddl and dml commands in sql ?
23.EME in abinitio ?
24.difference between filter by key and filter by round robin ?
    Tell me About yourself?
    What components you Trained in Abinitio?
    About Filterbyexpression and Reformat?
    About output index and output indexes in Reformat?
    About never abort,force_error and force_abort?
    About dedupsort if we pass null key?
    check in and check out  
    how to run the job at the backend?
    how to know versions of object?
   m_expand?
  About normalize?
which component we have to use If we have 100 records at input how will get 1lakh records?
12.input1 ->
1
5
1
NULL
15
input2 ->
5
5
1
20
NULL
100
How many no of records present in
leftouter
right outer
full outer
inner joins

In Filterbyexpression if we pass values 100,0 what is output?
14)Emp_Name|department|Salary
Nikhil|xyz|30000
Pankaj|pqr|40000
Ankita|pqr|60000
Sushil|xyz|80000
how to get 2nd highest salary in abinitio?

product_name|cust_ID
Pencil|100
Pencil|200
Pencil|300
Pen|100
Pen|500
Pen|600 
Pen|700
how we will get max cust_id for pen?

About driving parameter in Join?
About scd type2?
About delete and truncate in sql?

UNIX
sed
grep
1. Self intro & about the previous project. 
2. The components that I’ve worked on. 
3. About Roll up component. 
4. Parameters of Reformat. 
5. About Normalize component. 
6. Max core of JOIN components. 
7. Check in and check out. 
8. About m_cmds and Air_cmds, that we know. 
9. Sandbox and EME. 
10. SQL- Having , where clause. 
11. Delete and truncate. 
12. DDL, DQL & DML. 
13. Joins and its types – SQL. 
14. Scenario based questions in Unix – On sed cmds. 
15. Other Unix cmds that I have worked on. 
16. Previous project questions – Git, Azure databricks notebook & scala. 
Tell me About yourself?
Tell me about your DataStage projects?
What components you Trained in Ab initio?
Run time behavior of filter by expression?
join and roll up parameters?
what happened if null values passing into roll up what will be the output?
what happened if null values passing into scan what will be the output?
How to convert serial file in to multifile?
How to find 2 Nd highest salary in Ab initio?
Tell me what components used in implementation of SCD type 2 in Ab initio?
M_Rollback command?
How many no of joins present in join Component?
How to remove header and trailer record in Ab initio?
Order of Execution in Reformat?

SQL:

Write a SQL Query to find Third highest salary?
Table 1  Table 2
1        1
1        1
1        1
1
How many no of records present in 
left outer
right outer
full outer
inner joins

Table 1    table 2 
name        name
Madhu       Madhu
mounica     vidya
vidya       Harshith

How to delete Harshith record in a table?

FIND and Delete Duplicates SQl Query ?


UNIX

sed 
grep
awk 
find 
cat commands
There is a customer related data with one primary and multiple secondary customers, we need to produce the output like one primary account with

atleast 3 secondary customers for each account 

expalin about multistage transform function in Rollup

Exmaple on Rollup Expanded package

can we define global variables in expanded rollup

There is a file with date parameter and this is shell interpred parameter, due to this, we are getting warnings while check-in, how to fix it. 

what is the sort component mechanism, how the merge files will work

how to set a max core value if the process is running in 4-ways parallel

what is the diff bw the parameter with exported and without exported to the environment

What is non equi join

what is rank and dense-rank 

diff bw full-outer and cross-join

how to write a shell script for house keeping
support & dev exp segregation asked by Gowtham
opening the graph - from scratch dev
explained his profile well
Informatica vs AbInitio comparison - how A>I will prove better than Informatica - answered on parallelism - dynamic artifact generation - volume of data
PBE vs FBE
Optimizing the graph without knowing why the existing graph is built that way - MFS - avoid using multiple Sort
IP file(transaction) - RFMT - Sort - FBE - Scan - PBRR - RLP(total transactions per country) - MFS - issue with the designs - (PBRR answered) (FBE at start of graph, answered) (partitioning data earlier answered)
Data skewing impact on above if PBK is used - okish
cust id, transaction id, product purchased, etc - it is MFS partitioned on cust_id - lkp has product id, product deatils, product description - 10 million in input, 10 in lkp - lkp_local on hint he agreed
FBE - (1+1)==10 - 1==-1 - answered right
1|10|3 (avging based on no of non empty columns) - answered vector and all
1|2|
1||
||
adding/removing columns without using refomrat and redefine format - FBE answered
component folding - not clear
10k records - 10 record every minute - throttle - unanswered - he gone for process/script - throttle
design a genaric graph - header detail and traler records - filname, fileTS (H)- Trans id, trans amt, DorC (D) - Total C amt, total D amt, total transaction (T) - do header and trailer validations - answered on conditional dml - explained approach(rlp null key) - answered partially
1
0
5
-1
9
8
Output
8
9
-1
5
0
1
10,2 vs 10.2
$# vs $?
factless facts
1.Tell me about yourself
2.How to Display records between 50-75 in ab initio
3. There are 100 rec --> 4way mfs,if you use Roll up then how many outputs it will give you.
4. 
Input:
1
2
3
4
5
next_in_sequence() >=2 and next_in_sequence <=4
What is the output ?

5. inp -- ritwik
output:
r 
i
t 
w 
i
k
6. how to convert 4 way to 2 way MFS
1.Tell me about yourself
2.What components you have learnt in the training.
3.Runtime behavioral of Reformat
4.what is check-in and check-out. Give syntax for check-in 
5.Relationship between Co>operative system,EME,GDE
6.What are Air commands available in Ab initio
7.How to replace rithvik with satish in all occurrences in a file ?
sed -i 's/rithvik/satish/g' filename

8.What is Max_core? why it is used.
9.join 2 data set
1    1
1    0
1    0
2    1
0    1
1    0
What is the output for inner Join
10.How to Display records between 50-75 in ab initio
sed -n '50,75p' file.txt

11.How to distribute 100GB file into 10 file of 10 GB each file.
partition by load balance

12.There are 100 rec --> 4way mfs, if you use Roll up then how many outputs it will give you.
13. 
Input:
1
2
3
4
5
next_in_sequence() >=2 and next_in_sequence <=4
What is the output ?
14.
inp -- ritwik
want output:
r
i
t
w
i
k
15. How to do version comparison using air command .Give syntax
1 What are the Components that break Data Lineage?
2 How do you resolve lineage breaks?
3 How do you create reource pools
4 How do you drop fields without using reformat and redefine reformat?
5 How to drop fields using meta Programming?
6 what is the Significance of   .. in .. ab_project.ksh .
7 "Where will records go when we give :-
A+B == A+B in FBE
(A+B) == A+B in FBE"
8 "I/P:-                                               O/P:-
Ban     Chn      600                       Ban   Chn  600
Chn     Ban      600                       pune hyd  1000
Pune   Hyd     1000                     Mum Goa  3000
Hyd     Pune   1000
Mum  Goa     3000
Ban     Chn     2800"
9 How to copy multifile from one server to another server? What are all the steps that we need to check before?
10 what are all the methods available in plans
11 How can we make our subplan run in serial/parallel loop?
12 "i/p  --> sort --> Reformat --> FBE --> PBRR --> Rollup --> MFS
This is the flow of the graph. Is this the best approach to calculate the sum of transaction amounts for each country in a input file."
13 In the above Scenario if the file size is big How to achieve in best possible way?
14 Have you ever worked on Hadoop Component?
15 How to import an object from unix to control centre?
16 "I/P:- 
1 | 2 | 3
   | 2 | 3
1 |    | 
   |    |

with this input How to get the average of sum of not null fields?"
17 How to read json data?
18 How to call API's in AbInitio?
19 How to remove duplicates from a table?
20 If we don't know the primary key How will you remove 
21 Difference between Api  mode and utility mode?
22 What kind of constraint failures we may get in utility mode?
23 What is factless fact table and give some examples?
24 "I/P:-            O/P:-             O/P:-
10 | 3            10 | 3 | 13     10 , 3 , 13
11 |2            11 | 2 | 13     11 , 2 , 13
12 |3            12 | 3 |15     12 , 3 , 15
14 |5            14 | 5 |19     14 , 5 , 19
How to achieve above in unix?"
awk 'BEGIN { FS=" | " } { sum = $1 + $2; print $1 " , " $2 " , " sum }' input.txt


25 What is significance of  #!/usr/bin/ksh   in shell script?
26 What are these $? ,  $# , $@ 
27 What is the error if tdset and dml are not in same sandbox?

1) Data warehouse basics : schemas, data mart.
schema: schema is the logical representation of the database it include names and the descriptions of all the records of all record types all associated datatypes and data items . here database use a relational model where as datwarehouse uses a star or snowflake schema

datamart:datamart is similar to datwarehouse but the scope of visibility is much less compared to datawarehouse,it focus only one subject or business unit,it usally follows star schema

2) What you learnt  in Hadoop, hive
3) Name some component Talend you practiced?
4) SCD types and explain?
type 1- no history maintained
type2- history maintained
type3- history is maintained but user decide how much history is to be maintained
type4- two files one for current record and other for history
type6- hybrid

5) How to implement scd type 2 in abinitio ort talend?

6) Port of join components?
unused input output log error reject 

7) Does update or insert which comes first in scd type 2 implementation. 
In SCD Type 2, the update operation comes first to expire the existing records, followed by the insert operation to add the new current records. This ensures that the history of changes is accurately maintained and the dimension table correctly reflects the most recent data along with historical data

8) On which phase update come in abinitio? 

9) Phases and checkpoints?
Phases in Ab Initio refer to different stages in the execution of a graph. They help manage the flow of data and the execution order of components. By breaking down the execution into phases, you can control dependencies, parallelism, and resource allocation more efficiently.
Checkpoints in Ab Initio are used to save the state of a graph at specific points during execution. If a graph fails, it can be restarted from the last checkpoint, rather than from the beginning, saving time and resources.

10) What is importance of checkpoints?
Fault Tolerance: checkpoint allows to work with failures gracefully,minimizing data loss and redundant processing
Efficient Recovery: ensures fast recovery when failure occurs, reduces the down time
Data Integrity: makes sure data is processed only once and in correct order to maintain data integrity

11) Suppose I have 10 graph in dev environment and I want to know where its checkpoints given?

12) Do you know toggle checkpoints?
In Ab Initio, checkpoints are used to mark specific points in a graph's execution. They allow the system to restart processing from the last successful checkpoint in case of a failure, rather than from the beginning. Toggling checkpoints typically involves enabling or disabling them for a component or set of components in a graph.
 A checkpoint saves status information, which allows you to recover completed stages of a graph that occurred before a failure and this toggle checkpoints decides you that youwant phases with checkpoint or phases without checkpoint

13) How to remove .rec fille from unix?
rm *.rec

14) Save file in unix/eme ?
in vi - :wq
in cat - cntrl d
in eme air object save/checkin

15) What are types of hive table in unix?
Manage table- in this table hive controls the data and schema of the table 
data is typically stored at /user/hive/warehouse by default
when you drop a manged tabe both data schema will getdropped
External table - In an external table, Hive only manages the schema, while the data is stored at an external location specified by the user.
data is stored externally where the location the user specified
when you drop the table data will remain intact schema will only be dropped

16) Suppose I have input file with 16 records and with partition by round robin given to 4way mfs and then connected to filter by expression with condition by next_in_sequence()==1 ? what will be the output?
ANS:Input: 16 records
Round-Robin Partitioning: Distributes records across 4 partitions evenly.
Filter by Expression (next_in_sequence() == 1): Selects the first record from each partition.
Output: 4 records (first record from each partition).

17) With same above scenario we have and I am giving condition as invocation_number()==1? What will be the output?
Input: 16 records
Round-Robin Partitioning: Distributes records across 4 partitions evenly.
Filter by Expression (invocation_number() == 1): Selects all records from Partition 1.
Output: 4 records (all records from Partition 1).

18) How to create vectors?
using denormalized sort or using string split
string split("1,2,3,4,",",")

19) Suppose I have folder and inside I have 30 file and 10 files have akash and 20 file don’t have akash name in it. How to find output as “file name have akash in it” another output statement will be like “file name don’t have akash in it” how to follow this process and get output sequentially?
ANS : using reformat or filter by expression in Fbe we write "starts_with(name,"akash")"

20) Basics commands you know in unix?
ls 
cat
grep
awk
sed
mv
cp
rm
mkdir
touch
vi
du
head
tail
kill all
kill9
cd
--version
stat
find
ps
rmdir



21) When to use SED?
when ever you required to transform the text you use sed
when you need to perform simple text replacements or deletions

22) Suppose I have file with 10 row of records and I wanted to print 2nd time occurrence of akash in that file how to identify 2nd time only that word?
grep -n 'akash' data.txt | sed -n '2p' | awk -F: '{print $2}'

23) With same above scenario I have and from 2nd line onwards I want to search the word and print how to achieve?
24) How to shift from one environment to another environment?

25) Do you know tags and its importance?
Tag in abinitio is like a labelling a version to an object in the EME 
so that it will be easy to retrieve the version or 
to manage and track the changes effectively throughout the development cycle

26) Rollup and scan difference?
1. Introduction
2. Roles & Responsibilities
3.Air commands - checkin and tag creation
4. What is sandbox and EME
sandbox is private workspace, where can create your own graphs plans etc, so that it will divided from the central repo and acts as a private repo so that you can test and 
5. How will you unlock an object which locked by others.
air lock break

6.Scenario on Balls and runs 
7. How to get 2nd highest salary from department table in A>I and SQL
SELECT department_id, salary
FROM (
    SELECT department_id, salary, 
           ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY department_id ORDER BY salary DESC) AS salary_rank
    FROM department
) ranked
WHERE salary_rank = 2;

8. I/P abc and want O/P cba 

9. What is m_dump 
m_dump is to show the records and dml of a input or output file ,it prints the information of the dml data,record formats and functions,it allows you to see the values of expressions at runtime

10. There is a file with 10000 records out of which I want to print only 50 - 100 records.
sed -n '50,100p' filename

11. What is Roll-up and Scan
rollup component used when you want grouped solutions or aggregate solutions when you want less output for more input use rollup and to perform aggregate functions like sum count and avg use  rollup
scan component is use  when you want cumulative output and when you required output for each input field ,you can us scan when you want same input to the same output use scan use scan when you want cumulative output

12. How to remove header and trailer part from a file.
simple way is using filter by expression where you can give id = body


13. Difference between sandbox.pset and project .pset
sandbox.pset: it is specific to only sandbox, it allows you to define parameters and environment settings to a specific sandbox
configurations are unique to each sandbox
this is like setting for personal workspace where each can have their own personal settings
project.pset: it is specific to the entire project and the sandboxes present in the project and allows you to define paramters and environment settings to entire project
configurations are same to all the sandboxes in the project
this is like setting for entire office ,where all the employees have to work based on this settings

14. What is .profile file and .abinitiorc file
.profile: set up the the environment and and runs the intilization commands avialble in the user session like aliasas etc..
acts like a personal assistant which setups everything you need for you work environment
it contains path variables,aliases,shell options
.abintiorc : it is used to setup the configuration settings like usrname and passwaords and the development environment settings
it's like a cheat sheet for how Ab Initio should behave when you're using it.
it contains default parameters, environment variables and configuration details like passwords

15.How will you list the objects in a tag.
air object ls -tag <tag_name>

16. What is parallelism and types.
ANS: parallelism is the ability to perform or process  multiple data processing tasks simultaneously
to use the resources efficiently,to improve performance and handle large datasets
data, component, pipeline 

17.What is DBC file 
Pg 13 Question25

18.How will test the DBC file
m_db test

19. How to find and delete files which are created 30days ago.
find . -type f -mtime +30 -exec rm {} \;
ban
20.input file with 
       1
       2
       3
       4
       5 
If I pass 0 value in select parameter of FBE what the output is .
ANS: any  empty output will be coming as 0 is passed which means false no record will satisfy the condition resulting in empty output
